=== [0] TOPIC: Aspiration: prevention and management | domain: Airway management (assessment & prediction, supraglottic & ETT devices, laryngoscopy/video, awake intubation, difficult & failed airway algorithm, extubation, complications) | discipline: anesthesia ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.471
  Section: GUIDELINES. mainstay of therapy in patients who subsequently become hypoxic is positive- pressure ventilation. Intubation and the institution of positive end-expiratory pressure, or noninvasive ventilation, may be required. Bronchoscopy and pulmonary lavage are usually indicated when particulate aspiration has occurred. Use of corticosteroids is generally not recommended, and antibiotics are administered depending upon culture results. Gan TJ, Belani K, Bergtese S. Fourth consensus guidelines for the management of postoperative nausea and vomiting. Anesth Analg. 2020;131:411. Practice guidelines for preoperative fasting and the use of pharmacologic agents to reduce the risk of pulmonary aspiration: application to healthy patients undergoing elective procedures: an updated report by the American Society of Anesthesiologists Task Force on Preoperative Fasting and the Use of Pharma

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.1399
  Section: G. Management of Complications. heart rate by 20 to 30 beats/min within 30 to 60 s if the epidural catheter or needle tip is intravascular. This technique is not always reliable in parturients because they often have marked spontaneous baseline variations in heart rate with contractions. Alternative methods of detecting unintentional intravascular catheter placement are based on eliciting signs of CNS toxicity, including tinnitus, dizziness, perioral numbness, or metallic taste. The use of dilute local anesthetic solutions and slow injection rates of no more than 5 mL at a time may also enhance the detection of unintentional intravascular injections before catastrophic complications develop. G. Management of Complications 1. Hypotension—Generally defined as a greater than 20% decrease in the patient’s baseline systolic blood pressure or a systolic blood pressure less than 100 mm

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.1333
  Section: Anesthetic Induction & Maintenance. provider has been alerted. However, critical initial issues impacting anesthetic management of trauma patients include the adequacy of the airway and vascular access, the ability of the patient to tolerate anesthesia, prevention of hypothermia, access to adequate blood bank supplies, and avoidance of crystalloids and vasopressors until hemorrhage is controlled. Therefore, we strongly recommend anesthesiologist participation in the early assessment of severely injured trauma patients in the emergency department. Anesthetic Induction & Maintenance Severely injured, conscious, and oriented trauma patients arriving for emergency surgery should have an abbreviated interview and examination, including an emphasis on consent for blood transfusions and advice that intraoperative awareness may occur during emergency surgery. As always, such discussions

  [3] Morgan & Mikhail p.2019
  Section: OBSTETRIC ANESTHESIA. OBSTETRIC ANESTHESIA Both critical incident and closed claims analyses have been reported regarding complications and mortality related to obstetrical anesthesia. In a study reviewing anesthesia-related maternal mortality in the United States using the Pregnancy Mortality Surveillance System, which collects data on all reported deaths causally related to pregnancy, 86 of the 5946 pregnancy-related deaths reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention were thought to be anesthesia related or approximately 1.6% of total pregnancy related-deaths in the period 1991 to 2002. The anesthesia mortality rate in this period was 1.2 per million live births, compared with 2.9 per million live births in the period 1979 to 1990. The decline in anesthesia-related maternal mortality may be secondary to the decreased use of general anesthesia in parturients, red

  [4] Morgan & Mikhail p.1383
  Section: CHAPTER 41. CHAPTER 41 Obstetric Anesthesia Michael A. Frölich, MD, MS KEY CONCEPTS According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the leading causes of pregnancy-related death in the United States in 2017 were cardiovascular diseases (14%), infection/sepsis (13%), cardiomyopathy (12%), hemorrhage (11%), embolism (10%), stroke (8%), and hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (7%). Other pregnancy-related deaths were due to amniotic fluid embolism (6%), homicide (3%), unintentional injury (3%), and autoimmune disease (2%). Only 0.4% of maternal deaths were anesthesia related. Regardless of the time of last oral intake, all obstetric patients are considered to have a full stomach and be at risk for pulmonary aspiration. Nearly all parenteral opioid analgesics and sedatives readily cross the placenta and can affect the fetus. Regional anesthetic techniques are prefe

  [5] Morgan & Mikhail p.2322
  Section: Pseudohypoparathyroidism, 1184. Pseudohypoparathyroidism, 1184 Psoas compartment block. See Posterior lumbar plexus block Psychiatric disorders, 633–636 bipolar disease, 635 case discussion on, 637–638 depression, 633–635 neuroleptic malignant syndrome, 635–636 schizophrenia, 635 substance abuse, 636 Psychological dependence, 1105 Pudendal nerve block, 869–870, 1118–1119, 1119f Pulmonary artery catheterization, 91–96, 92f, 94f, 95t, 426, 452 clinical considerations, 95–96 complications of, 95 contraindications, 92 incidence of, 94f techniques and complications, 92f, 92–95 Pulmonary artery catheters, 453 Pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (PAOP), 94, 1215 Pulmonary artery pressure (PAP), 452–453 Pulmonary aspiration, 862–863 Pulmonary capillaries, 534 Pulmonary capillary occlusion pressure (PCOP), 91 Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP), 358 Pulmonary carcinoids, 565 Pulmon

  [6] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI p.30
  Section: RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SKIN AND SOFT. debridement has not taken place; and/or (5) the patient’s im- mune deﬁciency is profound and cannot be reversed. The early identiﬁcation of an etiologic agent in immunocompro- mised hosts with SSTIs is essential when deciding whether sur- gical debridement is warranted because microbial resistance makes dogmatic empiric treatment regimens difﬁcult, if not dangerous. For this reason, skin biopsy material should be ob- tained by an experienced dermatologist and evaluated in con- junction with a pathologist who is familiar with this patient population. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SKIN AND SOFT TISSUE INFECTIONS IN CANCER PATIENTS WITH NEUTROPENIA XXII. What Is the Appropriate Approach to Assess SSTIs in Patients With Fever and Neutropenia? Determine whether the current presentation of fever and neutropenia is the patient’s initial episode of fever and neu

  [7] Miller/Baby Miller p.338
  Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT opioid administered, although reducing the dose reduces the likelihood of pruritus, and lipophilic agents (such as fenta- nyl) will result in a shorter duration of itching. Naloxone, naltrexone, or the partial agonist nalbuphine can be used for treatment. Ondansetron and propofol are also useful antipruritic therapies. The rate of shivering is as frequent as 55%93 and is more related to epidural than to spinal anesthesia. One postu- lated cause is the relatively cold temperature of the epi- dural injectate, which can affect the thermosensitive basal sinuses. The addition of neuraxial opioids, specifically fentanyl and meperidine, reduces the likelihood of shiver- ing.93 Prewarming the patient with a forced air warmer and avoiding the administrati


=== [1] TOPIC: ANCA-associated vasculitides: overview & ANCA testing | domain: Internal medicine: rheumatology, immunology & allergy (gout & crystal arthropathy, SLE, RA, vasculitides, anaphylaxis & angioedema, drug reactions) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] StatPearls p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK554372 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK554372/ Topic: ANCA-associated vasculitides: overview & ANCA testing Article Title: ANCA-Associated Vasculitis License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. ANCA-Associated Vasculitis Abdallah Qasim ; Jayesh B. Patel . Authors Abdallah Qasim 1 ; Jayesh B. Patel 2 . Last Update: August 31, 2024 . Continuing Education Activity Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)–associated vasculitides are a heterogeneous group of rare autoimmune conditions that cause inflammation of blood vessels with various manifestations. The 3 main ANCA–associated vasculitides are granulomatosis with polyangiitis, mic

  [1] StatPearls: StatPearls   Microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) p.3
  e the host vasculature by triggering inflammation and cytokine production. [5] Although anti-MPO is the primary ANCA associated with MPA, anti-proteinase 3 (PR3) can also be present in some cases. Estimates suggest that approximately 70% of patients with MPA are anti-MPO–positive, 20% are anti-PR3–positive, and 10% are ANCA-negative. [6] Less specific ANCA antigens include cathepsin G, lactoferrin, elastase, defensin, α-enolase, moesin, leukocidin, and bactericidal permeability increasing protein, although their pathogenicity is considered to be low. [6] Lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2 (LAMP-2) antibodies are of particular interest in ANCA-associated vasculitis because they are present in patients with both anti-MPO and anti-PR3 antibodies and may contribute to the disease pathology. Moreover, LAMP-2 antibodies have been detected in patients with active ANCA-associated vasculitis

  [2] StatPearls p.6
  Section: Treatment / Management. ystemic lupus erythematosus and Goodpasture syndrome (anti-glomerular basement membrane disease) can present similar clinical signs and symptoms. In addition, infections such as infective endocarditis and chronic hepatitis should be excluded, as they can also mimic the presentation of vasculitis. To assess disease activity, inflammatory markers, persistence of ANCA antibodies, and kidney function (including urea and electrolytes, urine protein quantification, and urine microscopy) should be monitored. Disease activity can be tracked by clinical tools such as the Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score (BVAS), which helps evaluate changes over time. [34] [35] Treatment / Management Treatment for ANCA vasculitides typically begins with induction of remission to avoid or slow down organ involvement. The definition of remission has been standardized by the Europ

  [3] StatPearls: StatPearls   Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA Wegener) p.4
  nti-GBM disease have detectable ANCA, typically anti-MPO. In contrast, up to 10% of patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis also have circulating anti-GBM antibodies. [12] Generally, the positive ANCA precedes the anti-GBM antibodies; therefore, it is postulated that ANCA leads to the anti-GBM antibodies by exposing epitopes on the GBM. Renal manifestations follow an anti-GBM pattern, whereas systemic symptoms are similar to those of ANCA vasculitis. [13] [14] This double-positive characteristic comes into play during treatment selection. [8] [15] Among the 3 ANCA-associated vasculitides, GPA is the most common. The annual worldwide incidence of GPA is estimated to be 10 to 20 cases per million based on the geographical location. A higher incidence is noted in the colder regions. The prevalence of GPA in European and American populations is about 120 to 140 per million. [16] A national 

  [4] StatPearls: StatPearls   Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA Wegener) p.7
  [26] Antineutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibody Testing Although ANCA serology is essential for diagnosing ANCA-associated vasculitis, the diagnosis cannot rely solely on ANCA testing, as positive results may also be found in other inflammatory conditions

  [5] StatPearls p.2
  tosis with polyangiitis (GPA), formerly known as Wegener granulomatosis; eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA), previously known as Churg-Strauss syndrome; and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA). Other ANCA-associated diseases include drug-induced vasculitis and renal-limited vasculitis. Please see StatPearls' companion resources, " Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ," " Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis ," " Microscopic Polyangiitis ," and " Rapidly Progressive Glomerulonephritis ," for further information. The link between the clinical syndromes, such as GPA, EGPA, and MPA, and ANCA was established in 1988 when the sera of patients with crescentic glomerulonephritis were found to bind to neutrophils in 2 recognizable patterns—perinuclear or diffusely throughout the cytoplasm. Further examination revealed that these patterns correlated with 2 types of antibodies—pe

  [6] StatPearls p.4
  Section: Double-Positive Antibody Disease. Anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) therapy for rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis [18] Double-Positive Antibody Disease Also called dual antibody disease, this type of crescentic glomerulonephritis is associated with a positive ANCA and anti-GBM antibody. Some studies indicate that 10% to 50% of patients with anti-GBM disease have detectable ANCA, typically anti-MPO. In contrast, up to 10% of patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis also have circulating anti-GBM antibodies. [19] Generally, the positive ANCA precedes the anti-GBM antibodies; therefore, it is postulated that ANCA leads to the anti-GBM antibodies by exposing epitopes on the GBM. Renal manifestations follow an anti-GBM pattern, whereas systemic symptoms are similar to those of ANCA vasculitis. [20] [21] This double-positive characteristic comes into play during t

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA Wegener) p.2
  ed treatment protocols for managing granulomatosis with polyangiitis, including the use of immunosuppressive therapies. Collaborate with an interprofessional healthcare team, including rheumatologists, nephrologists, and pulmonologists, to provide comprehensive care for patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis. Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), formerly known as Wegener's granulomatosis, is a necrotizing vasculitis affecting small to medium-sized vessels. GPA is part of a spectrum of disorders known as antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)–associated vasculitides. The 3 main ANCA-associated vasculitides are GPA, microscopic polyangiitis (MPA), and eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA or Churg-Strauss syndrome). This classification was established at the 2012 Chapel Hill Consensus Conference on the Nomenclature of Systemic Vasculitides. [1] GPA is character


=== [2] TOPIC: ARDS | domain: ICU Critical Care | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.2130
  Section: Increases in pulmonary blood flow that exceed the capacity of the pulmonary. pulmonary capillaries and secondarily increases Pc′. Pulmonary venous hypertension may result from left ventricular failure, mitral stenosis, or left atrial obstruction. Increases in pulmonary blood flow that exceed the capacity of the pulmonary vasculature will also raise Pc′. Marked increases in pulmonary blood flow can be the result of large left-to-right cardiac or peripheral shunts, hypervolemia (fluid overload), or extremes of anemia or exercise. Management of cardiogenic pulmonary edema involves decreasing the pressure in the pulmonary capillaries. Generally, this includes measures to improve left ventricular function, correct fluid overload with diuretics, or reduce pulmonary blood flow. Pharmacological treatment of acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema has included oxygen, morphine, diuretics (espe

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.2125
  Section: CHAPTER 57. CHAPTER 57 Common Clinical Concerns in Critical Care Pranav Shah, MD KEY CONCEPTS Pulmonary edema usually results from either an increase in the net hydrostatic pressure across the capillaries (hemodynamic or cardiogenic pulmonary edema) or an increase in the permeability of the alveolar–capillary membrane (increased permeability edema or noncardiogenic pulmonary edema). Reduced tidal volumes are associated with the greatest improvement in outcome after acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) of any intervention subjected to a randomized clinical trial to date. Early elective tracheal intubation is advisable when there are obvious signs of heat injury to the airway. Patients with hoarseness and stridor require immediate tracheal intubation or a surgical airway. The criteria developed by the Acute Kidney Injury Network are now most often used to stage acute kidney 

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.874
  Section: Restrictive Pulmonary Disease. and secretions, absence of significant hypercapnia and acidosis, and absence of respiratory depression due to residual anesthetic agents. Patients with an FEV1 below 50% may require a period of postoperative ventilation, particularly following upper abdominal and thoracic operations. Restrictive Pulmonary Disease Restrictive pulmonary diseases are characterized by decreased lung compliance. Lung volumes are typically reduced, with preservation of normal expiratory flow rates. Thus, both FEV1 and FVC are reduced, but the FEV1/FVC ratio is normal. Restrictive pulmonary diseases include many acute and chronic intrinsic pulmonary disorders, as well as extrinsic (extrapulmonary) disorders involving the pleura, chest wall, diaphragm, or neuromuscular function. Reduced lung compliance increases the work of breathing, resulting in a characteristic rapid, b

  [3] Morgan & Mikhail p.2176
  Section: O2 toxicity is attributed to the intracellular generation of highly reactive O2. Prolonged exposure to high concentrations of O2 may damage the lungs. Toxicity is dependent both on the partial pressure of O2 in the inspired gas and the duration of exposure. Alveolar rather than arterial O2 tension is most important in the development of O2 toxicity. Although 100% O2 for up to 10 to 20 h is generally considered safe, concentrations greater than 50% to 60% are undesirable for longer periods as they may lead to pulmonary toxicity. O2 toxicity is attributed to the intracellular generation of highly reactive O2 metabolites (free radicals) such as superoxide and activated hydroxyl ions, singlet O2, and hydrogen peroxide. A high concentration of O2 increases the likelihood of generating toxic species. These metabolites are cytotoxic because they readily react with DNA, proteins, and li

  [4] Morgan & Mikhail p.979
  Section: Anesthesia for Head Trauma. Anesthesia for Head Trauma Head injuries are a contributory factor in up to 50% of deaths due to trauma. Most patients with head trauma are young, and many (10–40%) have associated intraabdominal or intrathoracic injuries, long bone fractures, or spinal injuries. The outcome from a head injury is dependent not only on the extent of the neuronal damage at the time of injury but also on the occurrence of any secondary insults or sequelae from other injuries or complications (see Chapter 39). These secondary insults include (1) systemic factors such as hypoxemia, hypercapnia, or hypotension; (2) the formation and expansion of an epidural, subdural, or intracerebral hematoma; and (3) sustained intracranial hypertension. Head-injured patients may have a wide variety of other injuries, may arrive at the hospital in an intoxicated state, and are subject to t

  [5] Morgan & Mikhail p.2215
  Section: Acinus, 720. Acinus, 720 Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), 1227 Action potentials, 260, 261f Activated charcoal, 1356 Activated clotting time (ACT), 453, 474, 733 Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), 733 Activated protein C, 828, 829f Active humidifiers, 62 Acupuncture, 1133 Acute adrenal insufficiency, 769 Acute angle-closure glaucoma, 231 Acute aortic regurgitation, 425 Acute flaccid paralysis (AFP), 646 Acute gastrointestinal hemorrhage, 1353 Acute hepatitis drug-induced, 739–741 intraoperative considerations, 741 viral, 735 Acute herpes zoster/postherpetic neuralgia, 1096 Acute ischemic stroke, 617 Acute kidney failure, 688 Acute kidney injury (AKI), 666–668, 668t, 680 azotemia associated with, 1342, 1342t biomarkers of, 684f description of, 1342 differential diagnosis, 680f drugs that cause, 669t etiology of, 1343t, 1343–1344 in high-risk patients, 671 non

  [6] Society Guideline p.74
  Section: 434. Papazian L, Aubron C, Brochard L, et al: Formal guidelines:. 434. Papazian L, Aubron C, Brochard L, et al: Formal guidelines: Management of acute respiratory distress syndrome. Ann Intensive Care 2019; 9:69 435. Laffey JG, Bellani G, Pham T, et al; LUNG SAFE Investigators and the ESICM Trials Group: Potentially modifiable factors contributing to outcome from acute respiratory distress syn- drome: The LUNG SAFE study. Intensive Care Med 2016; 42:1865–1876 436. Villar J, Martín-Rodríguez C, Domínguez-Berrot AM, et al; Spanish Initiative for Epidemiology, Stratification and Therapies for ARDS (SIESTA) Investigators Network: A quantile analysis of plateau and driving pressures: Effects on mortality in patients with acute respiratory distress syn- drome receiving lung-protective ventilation. Crit Care Med 2017; 45:843–850 437. Hodgson CL, Cooper DJ, Arabi Y, et al: Maximal recru

  [7] Society Guideline p.37
  Section: Protective Ventilation in Acute Respiratory. Protective Ventilation in Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) This recommendation is the same as that of the pre- vious guidelines. Of note, the studies that guide the recommendations in this section enrolled patients using criteria from the American-European Consensus Criteria Definition for Acute Lung Injury and ARDS (422). For the current document, we used the 2012 Berlin definition and the terms mild, moderate, and severe ARDS (PaO2/FiO2 ≤ 300, ≤ 200, and ≤ 100 mm Hg, respectively) (423). Several multicenter RCTs have been performed in patients with established ARDS to evaluate the effects of limiting inspiratory pressure through moderation of tidal volume (424–427). These studies showed differing results, which may have been caused by differences in airway pressures in the treat- ment and control groups (423, 424, 428). Se


=== [3] TOPIC: ARDS: Pathophysiology and Management | domain: Internal medicine: pulmonology (COPD, asthma, pulmonary embolism, pneumonia, ILD, pleural effusion, pneumothorax, hypoxemic & hypercapnic respiratory failure, OSA) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.2130
  Section: Increases in pulmonary blood flow that exceed the capacity of the pulmonary. pulmonary capillaries and secondarily increases Pc′. Pulmonary venous hypertension may result from left ventricular failure, mitral stenosis, or left atrial obstruction. Increases in pulmonary blood flow that exceed the capacity of the pulmonary vasculature will also raise Pc′. Marked increases in pulmonary blood flow can be the result of large left-to-right cardiac or peripheral shunts, hypervolemia (fluid overload), or extremes of anemia or exercise. Management of cardiogenic pulmonary edema involves decreasing the pressure in the pulmonary capillaries. Generally, this includes measures to improve left ventricular function, correct fluid overload with diuretics, or reduce pulmonary blood flow. Pharmacological treatment of acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema has included oxygen, morphine, diuretics (espe

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.874
  Section: Restrictive Pulmonary Disease. and secretions, absence of significant hypercapnia and acidosis, and absence of respiratory depression due to residual anesthetic agents. Patients with an FEV1 below 50% may require a period of postoperative ventilation, particularly following upper abdominal and thoracic operations. Restrictive Pulmonary Disease Restrictive pulmonary diseases are characterized by decreased lung compliance. Lung volumes are typically reduced, with preservation of normal expiratory flow rates. Thus, both FEV1 and FVC are reduced, but the FEV1/FVC ratio is normal. Restrictive pulmonary diseases include many acute and chronic intrinsic pulmonary disorders, as well as extrinsic (extrapulmonary) disorders involving the pleura, chest wall, diaphragm, or neuromuscular function. Reduced lung compliance increases the work of breathing, resulting in a characteristic rapid, b

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.979
  Section: Anesthesia for Head Trauma. Anesthesia for Head Trauma Head injuries are a contributory factor in up to 50% of deaths due to trauma. Most patients with head trauma are young, and many (10–40%) have associated intraabdominal or intrathoracic injuries, long bone fractures, or spinal injuries. The outcome from a head injury is dependent not only on the extent of the neuronal damage at the time of injury but also on the occurrence of any secondary insults or sequelae from other injuries or complications (see Chapter 39). These secondary insults include (1) systemic factors such as hypoxemia, hypercapnia, or hypotension; (2) the formation and expansion of an epidural, subdural, or intracerebral hematoma; and (3) sustained intracranial hypertension. Head-injured patients may have a wide variety of other injuries, may arrive at the hospital in an intoxicated state, and are subject to t

  [3] Society Guideline p.74
  Section: 434. Papazian L, Aubron C, Brochard L, et al: Formal guidelines:. 434. Papazian L, Aubron C, Brochard L, et al: Formal guidelines: Management of acute respiratory distress syndrome. Ann Intensive Care 2019; 9:69 435. Laffey JG, Bellani G, Pham T, et al; LUNG SAFE Investigators and the ESICM Trials Group: Potentially modifiable factors contributing to outcome from acute respiratory distress syn- drome: The LUNG SAFE study. Intensive Care Med 2016; 42:1865–1876 436. Villar J, Martín-Rodríguez C, Domínguez-Berrot AM, et al; Spanish Initiative for Epidemiology, Stratification and Therapies for ARDS (SIESTA) Investigators Network: A quantile analysis of plateau and driving pressures: Effects on mortality in patients with acute respiratory distress syn- drome receiving lung-protective ventilation. Crit Care Med 2017; 45:843–850 437. Hodgson CL, Cooper DJ, Arabi Y, et al: Maximal recru

  [4] Society Guideline p.37
  Section: Protective Ventilation in Acute Respiratory. Protective Ventilation in Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) This recommendation is the same as that of the pre- vious guidelines. Of note, the studies that guide the recommendations in this section enrolled patients using criteria from the American-European Consensus Criteria Definition for Acute Lung Injury and ARDS (422). For the current document, we used the 2012 Berlin definition and the terms mild, moderate, and severe ARDS (PaO2/FiO2 ≤ 300, ≤ 200, and ≤ 100 mm Hg, respectively) (423). Several multicenter RCTs have been performed in patients with established ARDS to evaluate the effects of limiting inspiratory pressure through moderation of tidal volume (424–427). These studies showed differing results, which may have been caused by differences in airway pressures in the treat- ment and control groups (423, 424, 428). Se

  [5] Miller/Baby Miller p.766
  Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE lung-protective (ARDSnet) ventilation to prevent ventila- tor-associated lung injury (i.e., barotrauma, volutrauma, and atelectrauma). The central tenets of lung-protective ventilation include lower tidal volumes (i.e., 6 mL/kg of ideal body weight), limited plateau pressure (i.e., <30 cmH2O), using higher positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), and accepting lower PaO2 and higher PaCO2 Such distinctions help to direct appropriate treatment and supportive care. However, multiple processes can occur simultaneously. For example, a patient may have acute- on-chronic respiratory failure with the presence of both hypoxemia and hypercapnia. Hypoxemic Respiratory Failure Hypoxemic respiratory failure can be characterized by either pathophysiology or etiology. The former frame- work often distinguishes

  [6] Miller/Baby Miller p.380
  Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT peak airway pressure can also be caused by decreases in lung or chest wall compliance. If peak airway pressure is increased and simultaneously positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) is increased, this may signify a tension pneumothorax, especially if associated with arterial hypotension. In this circumstance the hypotension is caused by high intrathoracic pressure impeding venous return. The mechanical ventilator can be set to produce a brief pause at end inspiration, allowing the plateau pressure to be measured. External obstruction of an ETT (e.g., from a patient biting on the tube or tube kinking) can cause an increase in peak inspiratory pressure (PIP) with minimal or no increase in the plateau pressure (Fig.20.5). This can be easily ruled 

  [7] Stanford CA-1 p.74
  Section: Pulmonary Aspiration. Pulmonary Aspiration – Follow NPO guidelines for routine elective cases – Use metoclopramide, H2-blockers, and antacids in high-risk patients – Consider awake, regional anesthetic (e.g. spinal or epidural for c-sections) – Consider awake, upright intubation and/or RSI – If present, leave NGT to suction – Apply cricoid pressure until ETT position confirmed • Although this practice is debated, one could contend it is considered the ‘standard of care.’ – Minimize bag-mask PPV and/or keep pressure <20 cmH2O – Extubate after recovery of protective reflexes – Remain vigilant: aspiration occurs during emergence and maintenance and not just during induction NPO Guidelines • There is no evidence for the routine use of metoclopramide, H2- blockers, proton pump inhibitors, antiemetics, or anticholinergics in preventing aspiration or in reducing its morbidity/mortality


=== [4] TOPIC: Abdominal & Pelvic Trauma | domain: Internal medicine: emergency & acute care (cardiopulmonary resuscitation, trauma primary survey, toxicology & overdoses, environmental emergencies, anaphylaxis, acute abdomen) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.1345
  Section: When pediatric burn patients are encountered, the fluid resuscitation protocols are. FIGURE 39–6 The Rule of Nines, utilized to estimate burned surface area as a percentage of total body surface area (TBSA). (Reproduced with permission from American College of Surgeons. ATLS: Advanced Trauma Life Support for Doctors (Student Course Manual). 9th ed. Chicago, IL: ACS; 2012.) When pediatric burn patients are encountered, the fluid resuscitation protocols are the same as for adults. Children weighing less than 30 kg should receive 5% dextrose in their intravenous fluids, and the target urine output is 1.0 mL/kg/h. The target urine output for infants younger than 1 year of age is 1 to 2 mL/kg/h. Burn Management Considerations A. Fluid Creep The Parkland and modified Brooke protocols both use urine output as an indicator for adequate fluid resuscitation. However, circumstances may ari

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.1335
  Section: Communication among the trauma team is essential during DCS. The surgeon must. surgery (DCS). This surgical intervention is intended to stop hemorrhage and limit gastrointestinal contamination of the abdominal compartment. After making a midline incision, the surgeon quickly searches for sources of bleeding through a quadrant-by- quadrant examination. Definitive repair of complex injuries is not part of DCS. Identification and control of injured blood vessels and solid organs, as well as inspection of injuries in areas relatively inaccessible to midline approaches but potentially addressed by interventional radiology techniques (eg, deep liver lacerations, retroperitoneal hemorrhage), occurs during DCS. Hollow viscus injuries are addressed with resection, stapling, or both. Leaving the intestines disconnected until the patient is more stable reduces intraabdominal contamination 

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.1335
  Hemorrhage from pelvic ring fractures or major thoracic or abdominal vascular injuries are also potentially controlled by such interventions

  [3] StatPearls: StatPearls   Abdominal & Pelvic Trauma p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK556070 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK556070/ Topic: Abdominal & Pelvic Trauma Article Title: Pelvic Trauma License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Jessica E. Tullington ; Nathan Blecker . Authors Jessica E. Tullington 1 ; Nathan Blecker 2 . Last Update: August 8, 2023 . Continuing Education Activity Pelvic injuries are the result of high energy trauma; they frequently have associated injuries. The injuries can be life-threatening and lead to life-long disability. This article reviews the evaluation and management of traumatic pelvic injuries. All healthcare professionals need to have a basic understanding of the management a

  [4] StatPearls: StatPearls   Abdominal & Pelvic Trauma p.2
  pelvic trauma; it branches from the internal iliac artery and exits the pelvis at the sciatic notch. Other intrapelvic arteries that are associated with injuries include the inferior gluteal artery, rectal arteries, obturator artery, and the vesical artery. Veins accompany the arteries and are also prone to injury. The proximity of the veins and arteries accounts for the high incidence of combined injury. The seriousness of pelvic fractures comes from the association of other injuries, as well as the potential for hematoma and hemorrhagic shock. [2] Hemorrhage from pelvic fractures is a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Nerve injuries are less common than vascular injuries with pelvic trauma. Lumbosacral plexus injuries account for the majority of nerve injuries after pelvic trauma. The plexus is in close proximity to the sacroiliac joint and the acetabulum, two of the more common 

  [5] MGH Housestaff Manual p.245
  Section: Jason Silberman. Jason Silberman H O W T O C O N S U L T Obstetrics/MFM: For inpatient consults for patients with a known intrauterine pregnancy, page the MFM team (p17977) If no response, call L&D 617-724-9410 GYN Onc: if pt has biopsy confirmed GYN malignancy or established GYN onc provider (p31037) GYN: Everyone else (e.g., +hCG without confirmed intrauterine pregnancy, undifferentiated ovarian mass, heavy vaginal bleeding). Obtain pelvic vs. transvaginal U/S. If hCG⊕ but no confirmed intrauterine pregnancy on imaging, should be followed on ectopic list (p22346) A B N O R M A L U T E R I N E B L E E D I N G History: verify source of bleeding is vaginal (as opposed to GI or GU), duration and quantity (#soaked pads, tampons), associated sx (pain, dizziness), triggers (e.g., postcoital), trauma history. Other history: estrogen contraindications (smoking, BMI, HTN, h/o coagulopat

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Abdominal & Pelvic Trauma p.5
  Section: Treatment / Management. onal thromboelastometry (ROTEM) are useful tools to allow targeted resuscitation with blood products. [20] Multiple imaging modalities can be useful in evaluating pelvic trauma. An ultrasound can be used to perform a Focused Assessment with Sonography in Trauma (FAST) exam while in the trauma/resuscitation area. A FAST exam is used to identify free fluid. It cannot differentiate bowel contents from blood. [21] Pelvic x-rays in a hemodynamically unstable patient may help identify potentially life-threatening causes of injury. If the patient is unstable, a quick x-ray can direct care. It is still important to remember there are likely additional injuries, so a pelvic fracture may not be the sole cause of instability. A pelvic x-ray is also useful to evaluate for hip pathology, such as a fracture or dislocation that needs quick reduction. [22] X-ray, while u

  [7] MGH Housestaff Manual p.72
  Section: Abdominal Pain. Abdominal Pain Quinten Dicken I M A G E N E G A T I V E A B D O M I N A L P A I N Metabolic: DKA, Ca, uremia, heavy metals, AI, Acute Intermittent Porphyria Meds/Toxins: EtOH, opioids/opioid withdrawal, cocaine, anticholinergics, lead/heavy Functional: IBS, abdominal migraine, functional dyspepsia Episodic: passed kidney stone, sphincter of Oddi dysfunction Other: acute MI, angioedema, VZV, eosinophilic gastroenteritis, gastritis, polyradiculopathy, abdominal epilepsy Abdominal Pain History and Physical – Key Elements History: Location, chronicity, quality, radiation, pain ∆ w/ eating or BMs, ∆ in BMs (caliber, color, diarrhea, constipation), fever, wt. loss, jaundice, medications (NSAID, abx, steroids), surgeries Exam: Tenderness, distention, rigidity, rebound, guarding, fluid wave, shifting dullness, auscultation, Carnett’s sign (AJG 2017;112:760), Castell’s si


=== [5] TOPIC: Acetaminophen (Paracetamol) Toxicity | domain: Internal medicine: emergency & acute care (cardiopulmonary resuscitation, trauma primary survey, toxicology & overdoses, environmental emergencies, anaphylaxis, acute abdomen) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.1757
  Section: PHARMACOLOGICAL INTERVENTIONS. PHARMACOLOGICAL INTERVENTIONS Pharmacological interventions in pain management include acetaminophen, cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors, antidepressants, neuroleptic agents, anticonvulsants, corticosteroids, systemic administration of local anesthetics, and opioids. Acetaminophen (paracetamol) is an oral analgesic and antipyretic agent that is also available as an intravenous preparation (Ofirmev). It inhibits prostaglandin synthesis but lacks significant anti-inflammatory activity. Acetaminophen has few side effects but is hepatotoxic at high doses. The recommended adult maximum daily limit is 3000 mg/d, reduced from a previously recommended limit of 4000 mg/d. Isoniazid, zidovudine, barbiturates, and alcohol consumption may potentiate acetaminophen toxicity. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Nonopioid oral analgesics include salicylates

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.2160
  Section: Blood, urine, and gastric fluid specimens should be obtained and sent for. should be used to maintain normal arterial saturation. Hypoventilation and obtunded airway reflexes require tracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation. Many clinicians routinely administer naloxone (up to 2 mg), dextrose 50% (50 mL), and thiamine (100 mg) intravenously to all obtunded or comatose patients until a diagnosis is established; this may help exclude or treat opioid overdose, hypoglycemia, and Wernicke–Korsakoff syndrome, respectively. The dextrose can be omitted when a glucose measurement indicates it is not necessary. In this patient, intubation should be performed prior to naloxone because the respiratory depression is likely due to both the hydrocodone and the diazepam. Blood, urine, and gastric fluid specimens should be obtained and sent for toxicology screening. Blood is also sent for 

  [2] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acetaminophen (Paracetamol) Toxicity p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK562180 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK562180/ Topic: Acetaminophen (Paracetamol) Toxicity Article Title: Carbon Tetrachloride Toxicity License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Carbon Tetrachloride Toxicity A S M Al Amin ; Ritesh G. Menezes . Authors A S M Al Amin 1 ; Ritesh G. Menezes 2 . Last Update: September 4, 2023 . Continuing Education Activity Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) is an important agent for multiple purposes, such as cleaning purposes, industrial agents, etc. But it can cause several adverse effects. This activity highlights the pathophysiology of adverse effects, clinical features, evaluation, treatment, and moni

  [3] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acetaminophen (Paracetamol) Toxicity p.4
  Section: Differential Diagnosis. al failure. Clinicians may consider heparin to minimize the risk of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). S-adenosylmethionine administration leading to increased glutathione level, which reduces the CCl4-induced liver damage. After discharge, the patient should follow absolute alcohol abstinence for three months. Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnosis of CCl4 toxicity may include: Acetaminophen toxicity Diethylnitrosamine toxicity Amanita phalloides toxicity Alcoholic fatty liver disease Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease Patients who survive an acute CCl4 intoxication generally have a good prognosis without permanent injury. Patients with CCl4 toxicity may have different outcomes, such as fatty degeneration on the short to the mid-term time scale, whereas fibrosis, cirrhosis, and cancer on the long-term scale. Prognosis depends on the earl

  [4] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acetaminophen (Paracetamol) Toxicity p.3
  Section: Hepatic findings: Larger hepatic lobules; centrilobular hemorrhage; centrilobular necrosis. d apoptosis, whereas the TGFs directs the cells toward fibrosis. [12] [13] [14] Significant histopathologic changes in the liver and kidneys are observable in fatal cases of CCl4 toxicity. [4] Hepatic findings: Larger hepatic lobules; centrilobular hemorrhage; centrilobular necrosis Renal findings: Hydropic degeneration of the proximal convoluted tubules The toxicity of CCl4 is dangerous because of hepatotoxicity or nephrotoxicity that may develop with even small amounts such as cleaning a carpet in an apartment. Clinical presentation of CCl4 toxicity classifies into three phases. [1] Phase 1: Presenting symptoms in this phase include headaches and gastrointestinal symptoms such as vomiting, diarrhea, and colicky abdominal pain. Phase 2: This phase is a free interval where the patient has

  [5] StatPearls: StatPearls   Hepatic Encephalopathy p.5
  Section: Acetaminophen (paracetamol) toxicity. d by severe acute liver injury accompanied by impaired synthetic function (international normalized ratio [INR] of ≥1.5) and altered mental status. This typically occurs in patients without preexisting liver disease or cirrhosis. [19] Acute liver failure can result from various causes, as listed below. Acetaminophen (paracetamol) toxicity Veno-occlusive disease Acute fatty liver of pregnancy Toxin exposure, including mushroom poisoning Evaluation and Management of Hepatic Encephalopathy Secondary to Acute Liver Failure The classification of hepatic encephalopathy stages is consistent for both acute liver failure and cirrhosis. In patients with acute liver failure and hepatic encephalopathy, cerebral edema is relatively rare in those with West Haven grade 1 or 2 encephalopathy. However, it is observed in approximately 25% to 35% of patients w

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acetaminophen (Paracetamol) Toxicity p.1
  Carbon Tetrachloride Toxicity A S M Al Amin

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acetaminophen (Paracetamol) Toxicity p.1
  This activity highlights the pathophysiology of adverse effects, clinical features, evaluation, treatment, and monitoring of the patient with CCl4 toxicity by professional health care specialists


=== [6] TOPIC: Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) in ICU | domain: Internal medicine: ICU & critical care (all-cause shock, vasopressors & inotropes, invasive & noninvasive ventilation, sedation & analgesia, multiorgan failure, rapid response, ACLS) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] StatPearls: StatPearls   Hepatorenal Syndrome (HRS) p.8
  Section: Definitive Management. s mean arterial pressure and renal perfusion. [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] Albumin increases effective arterial blood volume through both oncotic and nononcotic mechanisms, thereby enhancing cardiac contractility. Terlipressin is initiated at 1 mg intravenously every 6 hours, followed by dose escalation to 2 mg every 6 hours at 48 to 72 hours, if response is inadequate (creatinine reduction <20% to 30%). Continuous infusion (2 mg daily initially, escalating every 48 hours to a maximum of 12 mg daily) demonstrates equivalent efficacy with reduced adverse effects. [35] [36] The suggested albumin dose is 20 to 40 g daily, largely empirical and guided by volume assessment using point-of-care ultrasonography. [37] Adverse effects of terlipressin necessitate vigilant monitoring, including ischemic complications (myocardial, peripheral, mesenteric); respiratory failu

  [1] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute kidney injury p.2
  Section: Urine volume less than 0.5 mL/kg/h for at least 6 hours. N) or creatinine (Cr) levels may be within the normal range, and the only sign of AKI may be a decline in urine output. AKI can lead to the accumulation of water, sodium, and other metabolic products. AKI can also result in other electrolyte disturbances. AKI is a prevalent condition, especially among hospitalized patients, and can be seen in up to 7% of hospital admissions and 30% of ICU admissions. Several criteria have been used to identify AKI, such as RIFLE, AKIN (Acute Kidney Injury Network), and KDIGO (Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes) criteria. Among these, KDIGO is the most recent and most commonly used tool. According to KDIGO, AKI is the presence of any of the following: [4] Increase in serum creatinine by 0.3 mg/dL or more (26.5 μmol/L or more) within 48 hours Increase in serum creatinine to 1.5 times 

  [2] Society Guideline: Guideline   KDIGO 2012 AKI p.128
  Section: Venkataraman R. Can we prevent acute kidney injury? Crit Care Med 2008;. 52. Venkataraman R. Can we prevent acute kidney injury? Crit Care Med 2008; 36: S166–171. 53. Stewart J, Findlay G, Smith N, et al. Adding Insult to Injury: A review of the care of patients who died in hospital with a primary diagnosis of acute kidney injury (acute renal failure). National Conﬁdential Enquiry into Patient Outcome and Death: London, UK, 2009. 54. Bell M, Liljestam E, Granath F, et al. Optimal follow-up time after continuous renal replacement therapy in actual renal failure patients stratiﬁed with the RIFLE criteria. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2005; 20: 354–360. 55. Cruz DN, Bolgan I, Perazella MA, et al. North East Italian Prospective Hospital Renal Outcome Survey on Acute Kidney Injury (NEiPHROS- AKI): targeting the problem with the RIFLE Criteria. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 2007; 2: 418–425. 56. P

  [3] MGH Housestaff Manual p.99
  Section: Acute Kidney Injury. Acute Kidney Injury Roger Zou D E F I N I N G AKI (KDIGO 2012 Guidelines) Diagnostic Tips Serum Cr approximates GFR at steady state only (unable to estimate GFR w/ ∆Cr): must assume GFR <10 if ∆Cr > 1 mg/dL/day Drugs can impair Cr excretion without ∆GFR (BUN remains stable): trimethoprim (in Bactrim), H2 blockers (cimetidine), dronaderone BUN out of proportion to Cr: pre/post-renal, UGIB, steroids. Cr out of proportion to BUN: rhabdo, AIN, TMP-SMX, vanc,  nutrition S T E P W I S E W O R K U P 1) History/exam: vitals (HTN/HoTN), volume status, exposures (contrast, meds), recent infection (IgA nephropathy 1-2d, post-strep GN in 10-14d), active infection (sepsis can induce ATN independent of BP or RBF (JASN 2011;22:999)), trauma/myalgias/found down (rhabdomyolysis), rashes (AIN, vasculitis) 2) Urinalysis (UA): see Urinalysis. If AKI and UA demonstrate unexp

  [4] Morgan & Mikhail p.2139
  Section: Patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia whose ejection fraction is. amiodarone (150 mg intravenous bolus over 10 min). Synchronized cardioversion may be used in patients with ventricular tachycardia and a pulse. Patients with stable narrow-complex supraventricular tachycardia should be treated with amiodarone. Patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia whose ejection fraction is preserved should be treated with a calcium channel blocker, a β-blocker, or direct current (DC) cardioversion. Unstable hypotensive patients should be cardioverted. Patients with ectopic or multifocal atrial tachycardia should not receive DC cardioversion; rather, they should be treated with calcium channel blockers, a β- blocker, or amiodarone. Acute Kidney Injury & Failure Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a rapid deterioration in kidney function that is not immediately reversible b

  [5] Society Guideline: Guideline   KDIGO 2012 AKI p.24
  Section: The changes in GFR that were published with the original. the patient is staged according to the highest (worst) stage. The changes in GFR that were published with the original RIFLE criteria do not correspond precisely to changes in SCr. As SCr is measured and GFR can only be estimated, creatinine criteria should be used along with urine output for the diagnosis (and staging) of AKI. One additional change in the criteria was made for the sake of clarity and simplicity. patients reaching 44.0 mg/dl (4354 mmol/l), rather than require an acute increase of X0.5 mg/dl (X44 mmol/l) over an unspeciﬁed time period, we instead require that the patient ﬁrst achieve the creatinine- based change speciﬁed in the deﬁnition (either X0.3 mg/dl [X26.5 mmol/l] within a 48-hour time window or an increase of X1.5 times baseline). This change brings the deﬁnition and staging criteria to greater par

  [6] Society Guideline: Guideline   KDIGO 2012 AKI p.16
  Section: Section 1: Introduction and Methodology. Section 1: Introduction and Methodology Kidney International Supplements (2012) 2, 13–18; doi:10.1038/kisup.2011.31 Chapter 1.1: Introduction The concept of acute renal failure (ARF) has undergone signiﬁcant re-examination in recent years. Mounting evi- dence suggests that acute, relatively mild injury to the kidney or impairment of kidney function, manifest by changes in urine output and blood chemistries, portend serious clinical consequences.1–5 Traditionally, most reviews and textbook chapters emphasize the most severe reduction in kidney function, with severe azotemia and often with oliguria or anuria. It has only been in the past few years that moderate decreases of kidney function have been recognized as potentially important, in the critically ill,2 and in studies on contrast-induced nephropathy.4 Glomerular filtration rate and se

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute kidney injury p.3
  Section: KI mechanisms are listed below:. KI mechanisms are listed below: Hypovolemia: hemorrhage, severe burns, and gastrointestinal fluid losses such as diarrhea, vomiting, and high ostomy output. Hypotension from decreased cardiac output: cardiogenic shock, massive pulmonary embolism, acute coronary syndrome. Hypotension from systemic vasodilation: septic shock, anaphylaxis, anesthesia administration. Renal vasoconstriction: NSAIDs, iodinated contrast, amphotericin B, calcineurin inhibitors, hepatorenal syndrome. Glomerular efferent arteriolar vasodilation (causing intraglomerular hypotension): ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers. Intrinsic renal causes include conditions that affect the glomerulus or tubule, such as acute tubular necrosis and acute interstitial nephritis. This underlying glomerular or tubular injury is associated with the release of vasoconstrictors from th


=== [7] TOPIC: Acute Kidney Injury — Electrolyte & Acid-Base | domain: Internal medicine: ICU & critical care (all-cause shock, vasopressors & inotropes, invasive & noninvasive ventilation, sedation & analgesia, multiorgan failure, rapid response, ACLS) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.1942
  Section: Intravenous KCl replacement and a small amount of saline were judiciously. metabolic alkalosis is now most prominent. Intravenous KCl replacement and a small amount of saline were judiciously given, followed by complete resolution of metabolic alkalosis. The patient subsequently underwent surgical correction of the coarctation. SUGGESTED READINGS Ayers P, Dixon C, Mays A. Acid-base disorders: learning the basics. Nutr Clin Pract. 2015;30:14. Dhondup T, Qian Q. Electrolyte and acid-base disorders in chronic kidney disease and end-stage kidney failure. Blood Purif. 2017;43:179. Dzierba AL, Abraham P. A practical approach to understanding acid-base abnormalities in critical illness. J Pharm Pract. 2011;24:17. Filis C, Vasileiadis I, Koutsoukou A. Hyperchloraemia in sepsis. Ann Intensive Care. 2018;8:43. Kilic O, Gultekin Y, Yazici S. The impact of intravenous fluid therapy on acid-

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.1942
  Continuous renal replacement therapy for the management of acid-base and electrolyte imbalances in acute kidney injury

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.1948
  Section: Tissue edema secondary to excessive fluid administration can impair oxygen. Tissue edema secondary to excessive fluid administration can impair oxygen transport, tissue healing, and return of bowel function following surgery and may increase the risk of surgical site infection. CRYSTALLOID SOLUTIONS Crystalloids are often considered as the initial resuscitation fluid in patients with hemorrhagic and septic shock, in burn patients, in patients with head injury (to maintain cerebral perfusion pressure), and in patients undergoing plasmapheresis and liver resection. Colloids may be included in resuscitation efforts following initial administration of crystalloid solutions depending upon anesthesia provider preferences and institutional protocols. A wide variety of solutions is available, and choice is according to the type of fluid loss being replaced. For losses primarily involvin

  [3] Intern Notes / Survival Guide p.43
  Section: Acute Kidney Injury (AKI). disease and NOT improvement of renal fx Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) • Abrupt increase in Cr in <48h of >/= 0.3 mg/dl OR Cr >/=50% OR • <0.5mL/kg/hr for >6h • DDX: prerenal, intrinsic, post-renal. Consult pocket med etc for • Initial eval: hx, volume status, RFP, UA, urine microscopy, calculate FeNa or FeUrea if on diuretics or fluids, consider renal US for obstruction • Hold offending meds: NSAIDs, ACEI/ARB, etc. Avoid contrast if possible. (If you have to give contrast, chase w/ fluids) • Renal dose meds! CHECK UP TO DATE IF NOT SURE • Further workup and Tx based on etiology • Indications for emergent dialysis: AEIOU (Acidemia, Electrolyte disorder: hyper K, hyper Ca, tumor lysis), Intoxication: methanol, ethylene glycol, lithium, salicylates, Volume Overload (CHF), Uremia: pericarditis, encephalopathy, bleeding) Acid-Base Disorders 1: Is there alkalemi

  [4] Society Guideline: Guideline   KDIGO 2012 AKI p.17
  Section: More recently, investigators have emphasized the role of. to sustain glomerular ﬁltration. Data from renal biopsies in patients with ATN dating back to the 1950s13 conﬁrm the limited parenchymal compromise in spite of severe organ dysfunction.12 Thus, the syndrome of ATN has very little to do with the animal models traditionally used to study it. More recently, investigators have emphasized the role of endothelial dysfunction, coagulation abnormalities, systemic inﬂammation, endothelial dysfunction, and oxidative stress in causing renal injury, particularly in the setting of sepsis.14,15 True ATN does, in fact, occur. For example, patients with arterial catastrophes (ruptured aneurysms, acute dissection) can suffer prolonged periods of warm ischemia just like animal models. However, these cases comprise only a small fraction of patients with AKI, and ironically, these patients a

  [5] Society Guideline: Guideline   KDIGO 2012 AKI p.94
  Section: Both recommendations in this section of the guideline are. occurring with 72 hours and mortality occurring within 7 days of ICU admission, respectively.555,556 Thus, the issue of timing of dialysis initiation is critically important in children. Both recommendations in this section of the guideline are applicable to pediatric patients. A detailed discussion of the speciﬁc pediatric clinical situations is beyond the scope of Table 17 | Potential applications for RRT Renal replacement This is the traditional, prevailing approach based on utilization of RRT when there is little or no residual kidney function. Life-threatening indications No trials to validate these criteria. Dialysis for hyperkalemia is effective in removing potassium; however, it requires frequent monitoring of potassium levels and adjustment of concurrent medical management to prevent relapses. Metabolic acidosis

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Hemorrhagic Shock Classification & Management p.13
  Section: Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes. and abdominal compartment syndrome. An individualized fluid management plan should be guided by the patient’s clinical condition and medical history. This tailored approach helps prevent iatrogenic complications such as dehydration, fluid overload, electrolyte imbalances, and acid-base disturbances. Ongoing assessment, including the monitoring of vital signs, daily weights, and relevant laboratory values, combined with effective communication among the healthcare team, is essential to minimizing risks and optimizing patient outcomes. Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Fluid management is a critical component of inpatient care, and healthcare professionals must individualize fluid replacement according to each patient's specific needs and clinical status. Patients may require maintenance, replacement, or resuscitative fluids, or a combination o

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Metabolic Acidosis  Approach and Anion Gap p.10
  Section: Treatment / Management. tes compensatory mechanisms, these responses rarely normalize the serum pH. Following this initial assessment, clinicians should calculate the anion gap, regardless of whether the serum pH appears close to normal. This calculation must be adjusted for the patient’s albumin level to ensure accuracy. An elevated corrected anion gap requires further analysis, beginning with evaluation of the delta gap to assess for the presence of concurrent metabolic processes. Additionally, the osmolar gap should be measured to identify potential toxic ingestions or unmeasured solutes. When the corrected anion gap remains within the normal range, additional urine studies become necessary. Assessment should include the urine anion gap, urine pH, and urine electrolyte concentrations. These values help differentiate between renal and gastrointestinal causes of NGMA. If the pa


=== [8] TOPIC: Acute Pancreatitis & GI Emergencies in ICU | domain: Internal medicine: ICU & critical care (all-cause shock, vasopressors & inotropes, invasive & noninvasive ventilation, sedation & analgesia, multiorgan failure, rapid response, ACLS) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Society Guideline p.77
  Section: Curr Opin Anaesthesiol 2018; 31:55–60. 520. Kuhn SO, Meissner K, Mayes LM, et al: Vitamin C in sepsis. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol 2018; 31:55–60 521. Marik PE, Khangoora V, Rivera R, et al: Hydrocortisone, vi- tamin C, and thiamine for the treatment of severe sepsis and septic shock: A retrospective before-after study. Chest 2017; 151:1229–1238 522. Putzu A, Daems AM, Lopez-Delgado JC, et al: The effect of vitamin C on clinical outcome in critically ill patients: A sys- tematic review with meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Crit Care Med 2019; 47:774–783 523. Fowler AA III, Truwit JD, Hite RD, et al: Effect of vitamin C infusion on organ failure and biomarkers of inflammation and vascular injury in patients with sepsis and severe acute respiratory failure: The CITRIS-ALI randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2019; 322:1261–1270 524. Fujii T, Luethi N, Young PJ, et al; VITAMINS

  [1] Society Guideline p.70
  Section: Jiu Yi Xue 2013; 25:690–693. e1132 in patients with sepsis in ICU]. Zhonghua Wei Zhong Bing Ji Jiu Yi Xue 2013; 25:690–693 315. Nobre V, Harbarth S, Graf JD, et al: Use of procalcitonin to shorten antibiotic treatment duration in septic patients: A randomized trial. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2008; 177:498–505 316. Oliveira CF, Botoni FA, Oliveira CR, et al: Procalcitonin versus C-reactive protein for guiding antibiotic therapy in sepsis: A randomized trial. Crit Care Med 2013; 41:2336–2343 317. Qu R, Ji Y, Ling Y, et al: Procalcitonin is a good tool to guide duration of antibiotic therapy in patients with severe acute pancreatitis. A randomized prospective single-center con- trolled trial. Saudi Med J 2012; 33:382–387 318. Schroeder S, Hochreiter M, Koehler T, et al: Procalcitonin (PCT)-guided algorithm reduces length of antibiotic treat- ment in surgical intensive care patients

  [2] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Pancreatitis p.9
  oms of Acute Pancreatitis). Findings suggestive of hypovolemia, such as dry mucous membranes, prolonged capillary refill, and decreased skin turgor, are common. Epigastric tenderness with guarding or mild rigidity is often present on abdominal examination. Decreased bowel sounds may indicate ileus, while abdominal distension is more frequently observed in severe or necrotizing disease. Cullen sign, characterized by periumbilical ecchymosis, and Grey-Turner sign, marked by flank ecchymosis, suggest hemorrhagic pancreatitis with retroperitoneal or peritoneal bleeding. [16] Jaundice may reflect biliary obstruction or concomitant cholangitis. In some cases, a palpable epigastric mass may be appreciated, suggesting the presence of a pseudocyst or peripancreatic fluid collection. Altered mental status, particularly in older individuals, may indicate severe systemic involvement or underlying me

  [3] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Pancreatitis p.11
  Section: Treatment / Management. iary causes. This imaging tool detects gallstones, biliary sludge, and common bile duct dilation. Abdominal radiographs have limited diagnostic utility but may reveal indirect signs of pancreatitis, such as a sentinel loop, colon cutoff sign, or extraluminal air in cases of bowel perforation. Chest radiographs may demonstrate pleural effusions or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), particularly in severe disease. Cross-sectional imaging is not routinely required but becomes important when diagnostic uncertainty persists, or the patient fails to improve after 48 to 72 hours. Computed tomography (CT) with intravenous contrast is commonly used to evaluate for pancreatic necrosis, pseudocyst formation, or infection (see Image . Peripancreatic Necrotic Fluid on Computed Tomography). Magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatogr

  [4] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Pancreatitis p.16
  ent of vascular or gastrointestinal structures, contribute 2 additional points. The total score ranges from 0 to 10. A score of 0 to 2 indicates mild disease, 4 to 6 indicates moderate disease, and 8 to 10 indicates severe disease. These scoring systems aid in prognostication and interprofessional management but should always be interpreted within the broader clinical context. Repeat imaging and reassessment may be necessary as the disease evolves. Patients with alcohol-related pancreatitis have an elevated risk of recurrence and progression to chronic disease. Following a single episode, approximately 24% will experience recurrence, and 16% will develop chronic pancreatitis. Continued alcohol use strongly contributes to this progression, often resulting in permanent exocrine and endocrine dysfunction. The prognosis improves with early behavioral intervention and sustained abstinence. Ho

  [5] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Pancreatitis p.11
  These cases typically require intensive care unit management

  [6] Morgan & Mikhail p.2162
  Section: American Association of Poison Control Centers. http://www.aapcc.org/. American Association of Poison Control Centers. http://www.aapcc.org/ American Heart Association. http://cpr.heart.org/AHAECC/CPRAndECC/ResuscitationScience/Guidelines/UCM_ Quick Sepsis-Related Organ Function Assessment. http://www.qsofa.org/ SOFA calculator. http://clincalc.com/IcuMortality/SOFA.aspx Surviving Sepsis campaign. http://www.survivingsepsis.org/ SUGGESTED READINGS Andrews LJ, Benken ST. COVID-19: ICU delirium management during SARS-CoV-2 pandemic-pharmacological considerations. Crit Care. 2020;24:375. Aslakson RA, Curtis JR, Nelson JE. The changing role of palliative care in the ICU. Crit Care Med. 2014;42:2418. Botti C, Lusetti F, Peroni S, et al. The role of tracheotomy and timing of weaning and decannulation in patients affected by severe COVID-19. Ear Nose Throat J. 2021;100(2_suppl):116S. D

  [7] Morgan & Mikhail p.2126
  Section: Scope. nosocomial infections. Systemic pooling of blood and transudation of fluid into tissues result in relative hypovolemia in patients with sepsis. The range of conditions that specialists in critical care medicine must address is extraordinarily broad. Many frequent concerns of the intensivist are covered in other chapters and will not be discussed here to avoid duplication. Therefore, for an overview of critical care medicine, the reader will need to refer to chapters where airway management (Chapter 19), inhalation therapy and ventilator management (Chapter 58), adrenergic agonists (Chapter 14), vasodilators (Chapter 15), fluids and electrolytes (Chapters 49–51), burn injury (Chapter 39), arrhythmias (Chapter 21), acute hypertension (Chapter 21), asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (Chapter 24), liver failure (Chapter 34), kidney disease (Chapter 31), resuscit


=== [9] TOPIC: Acute Spinal Cord Injury & Syndromes | domain: Internal medicine: neurology (ischemic & hemorrhagic stroke, seizures & status epilepticus, altered mental status & delirium, headache, neuromuscular weakness, spinal cord syndromes) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Spinal Cord Injury & Syndromes p.3
  ephalad vertebral arteries and runs caudally, the more rostral the location of ischemia, the more widespread or severe the symptoms. As the lateral horns are located between the T1 and L2 of the spinal cord, autonomic symptoms are not always present if ischemia does not involve this region. [2] Proprioception, vibratory sense, two-point discrimination, and fine touch are not affected in anterior cord syndrome and are carried by the dorsal column of the spinal cord, which is perfused by 2 posterior spinal arteries running in the posterior lateral sulci. [3] Anterior spinal artery syndrome is a rare cause of spinal cord acute ischemic myelopathy. However, it is the most common cause of spinal cord infarcts. [4] The syndrome is caused by any etiology that decreases or affects blood flow to the anterior spinal artery, with aortic surgery and atherosclerotic disease being the most common caus

  [1] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Spinal Cord Injury & Syndromes p.11
  Section: Neurogenic urinary retention can be managed with bladder catheterization. d with intravenous fluids and vasopressors Phrenic nerve impairment and dysfunction of the diaphragm in high cervical lesions are typically managed with mechanical ventilation Neurogenic urinary retention can be managed with bladder catheterization Deep venous thrombosis prevention prophylaxis Pressure sore prevention Gastrointestinal stress ulcer prevention Physical, occupational, and psychological therapy The most common cause of anterior spinal artery syndrome is aortic surgery; therefore, treatment should focus on preventing iatrogenic anterior spinal artery syndrome. A protocol to prevent anterior spinal artery syndrome during aortic surgery has been established. This protocol involves increasing blood flow to the anterior spinal artery by increasing mean arterial pressure and placing a lumbar drain t

  [2] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Spinal Cord Injury & Syndromes p.2
  erprofessional team to care for patients with anterior spinal artery syndrome. Anterior spinal artery syndrome, also known as anterior cord syndrome or ventral cord syndrome, is a neurologic condition that results in motor paralysis, pain, temperature sensory loss, and occasionally autonomic dysfunction due to occlusion of the anterior spinal artery. This artery supplies the anterior two-thirds of the spinal cord and runs along the entire length of the anterior surface of the spinal cord. Occlusion of the anterior spinal artery leads to reduced blood flow and eventual infarction of the spinal cord, resulting in bilateral lower extremity paresis or paraplegia with loss of pain and temperature sensation. Generally, the patient presentation varies depending on the portion of the spinal cord affected and the time to treatment. In addition to motor deficits and loss of pain and temperature se

  [3] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Spinal Cord Injury & Syndromes p.4
  Section: Occlusive and Hypoperfusion Etiologies of Anterior Spinal Artery Syndrome. al occlusion due to emboli or atheroma of the anterior spinal artery or the radicular branches. [1] The anterior aspect of the spinal cord is particularly susceptible to ischemia because the supplying vessels are end arteries and typically have no anastomoses. Anterior spinal artery infarction may also occur due to impairment of perfusion through the arteria radicularis magna, the major contributor to the caudal two-thirds of the anterior spinal artery in the lower thoracic and upper lumbar region, T5 to L2, of the spinal cord. Other causes of disruption of blood flow in the anterior spinal artery are aneurysms, trauma, or syphilitic arteries. [10] Furthermore, hypotensive states, venous infarctions, multiple sclerosis, and cord impingement by fracture fragments are less common causes of vascular damage t

  [4] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Spinal Cord Injury & Syndromes p.8
  Section: Acute back pain at the level of injury. unction of the phrenic nerve may lead to respiratory failure. [31] [32] Rare cases of anterior cord syndrome with unilateral symptomatology have been reported; this may be due to occlusion of unilateral sulcal arteries or collateralization from a posterior spinal artery. [9] [33] As anterior spinal artery syndrome has no acute treatment, late signs and symptoms, including spasticity, hyperreflexia, neurogenic bladder, and sexual dysfunction, are typically present. The following clinical features are findings observed in patients with acuteand late-onset syndromes. Acute clinical findings: Acute-onset symptoms appear immediately after the ischemic insult. Acute back pain at the level of injury Bilateral flaccid paraparesis or quadriparesis or plegia Loss of pain and temperature Preservation of proprioception, vibratory sense, fine touch, an

  [5] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Spinal Cord Injury & Syndromes p.5
  into vessels supplying the anterior spinal artery may result in embolic infarction of the spinal cord and anterior spinal artery syndrome. [15] [16] [17] Hypotensive shock: Hypotension may lead to anterior spinal artery syndrome. Luetic aortitis: This condition was common during the syphilitic era but is rarely observed today. [6] Minimally invasive spine surgery: Surgical procedures, such as percutaneous balloon kyphoplasty, may cause anterior spinal artery syndrome. [18] [19] Arteriovenous malformations: Spinal cord arteriovenous malformations may cause anterior spinal artery syndrome. [20] Digital subtraction angiography: This diagnostic and embolization procedure is a rare cause of anterior spinal artery syndrome, with an overall incidence of 1.4% to 6.5%. [7] Sickle cell disease: Due to thrombosis, sickle cell disease may lead to anterior spinal artery syndrome, among other complica

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Spinal Cord Injury & Syndromes p.6
  t the lumbar level. The anterior spinal artery provides small sulcal and penetrating arteries that enter the spinal cord's body at each level to supply blood to the spinal cord. Each spinal cord level contains a radicular artery that enters through the intervertebral foramen, primarily supplying the nerve root and dura. At some levels, they are enlarged and include embryonic connections with the anterior spinal artery, making them radiculomedullary arteries. The anterior spinal artery connections from the radiculomedullary arteries can be variable in the cervical regions. Typically, the cut-off is above the aortic arch, from either the vertebral or subclavian arteries. At the thoracic and lumbar regions, the intercostal arteries give rise to the radiculomedullary arteries, supplying the anterior spinal artery and the spinal cord at and below their entry-level. On average, the spinal cord

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Spinal Cord Injury & Syndromes p.15
  irds of the spinal cord due to the anterior spinal artery's reduced blood flow. The most common etiology is aortic surgery. Patient education about preventable risk factors is essential for preventable conditions such as aortic aneurysm or dissection. The syndrome presents as acute back pain at the level of injury. The patient shows bilateral motor dysfunction and loss of pain and temperature, with preservation of proprioception and vibratory sense. Patients may have autonomic dysfunction. MRI is the gold standard for diagnosis. No acute treatment is available; management focuses on treating presenting symptoms and complications. Most patients remain functionally incapacitated. Physical and emotional support is essential. Section: Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes. Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Section: Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes. Although rare, anterior spinal artery syndr


=== [10] TOPIC: Angioedema | domain: Internal medicine: emergency & acute care (cardiopulmonary resuscitation, trauma primary survey, toxicology & overdoses, environmental emergencies, anaphylaxis, acute abdomen) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.2035
  Section: Angioedema can lead to airway compromise and is frequently the cause for. urticaria, angioedema, and anaphylaxis; when these reactions are mild, they are confined to the skin (urticaria) or moderate, they involve subcutaneous tissue (angioedema). Severe reactions become generalized and life-threatening medical emergencies (anaphylaxis). Urticarial lesions are characteristically well-circumscribed skin wheals with raised erythematous borders and blanched centers; they are intensely pruritic. Angioedema presents as deep, nonpitting cutaneous edema from marked vasodilation and increased permeability of subcutaneous blood vessels. When angioedema is extensive, it can be associated with large fluid shifts; when it involves the pharyngeal or laryngeal mucosa, it can rapidly compromise the airway. Angioedema can lead to airway compromise and is frequently the cause for anesthesiology a

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.2052
  Section: Stojiljkovic L. Renin-angiotensin system inhibitors and angioedema: anesthetic. errors contributing to death and brain damage: a closed claims analysis. Anesthesiology. 2017;127:326. Sprung J, Bourke DL, Contreras MG, et al. Perioperative hearing impairment. Anesthesiology. 2003;98:241. Stojiljkovic L. Renin-angiotensin system inhibitors and angioedema: anesthetic implications. Curr Opin Anesthesiol. 2012;25:356. Szokol JW, Chamberlin KJ. Value proposition and anesthesiology. Anesthesiol Clin. 2018;36:227. Tanaka KA, Mondal S, Morita Y, Williams B, Strauss ER, Cicardi M. Perioperative management of patients with hereditary angioedema with special considerations for cardiopulmonary bypass. Anesth Analg. 2020;131:155. van Cuilenborg VR, Hermanides J, Bos EME Drs, et al. Perioperative approach of allergic patients. Best Pract Res Clin Anaesthesiol. 2021;35:11. Vorobeichik L, Weber 

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.2036
  Section: Anesth. 2013 Jun;25(4):335-343.). FIGURE 54–8 Treatment of acute attacks of angioedema based on underlying etiology. ACE-I, angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitor; ARB, angiotensin receptor blocker; C1INHRP, C1 inhibitor replacement protein; FFP, fresh frozen plasma; IV, intravenous; NSAID, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug. (Reproduced with permission from Barbara D, Ronan K, Maddox D, et al. Perioperative angioedema; background, diagnosis and management. J Clin Anesth. 2013 Jun;25(4):335-343.) 2. Anaphylactic Reactions Anaphylaxis is an exaggerated response to an allergen (eg, antibiotic) that is mediated by a type I hypersensitivity reaction. The syndrome appears within minutes of exposure to a specific antigen in a sensitized person and characteristically presents as acute respiratory distress, circulatory shock, or both. Death may occur from asphyxiation or irreversible

  [3] Morgan & Mikhail p.2037
  increased myocardial contractility. BK-A cleaves bradykinin from kininogen; bradykinin increases vascular permeability and vasodilation and contracts smooth muscle. Activation of Hageman factor can initiate intravascular coagulation. Eosinophil chemotactic factor of anaphylaxis, neutrophil chemotactic factor, and leukotriene B4 attract inflammatory cells that mediate additional tissue injury. Angioedema of the pharynx, larynx, and trachea produce upper airway obstruction, whereas bronchospasm and mucosal edema result in lower airway obstruction. Transudation of fluid into the skin (angioedema) and viscera produces hypovolemia, whereas arteriolar vasodilation decreases systemic vascular resistance. Coronary hypoperfusion and arterial hypoxemia promote arrhythmias and myocardial ischemia. Leukotriene and prostaglandin mediators may also cause coronary vasospasm. Prolonged circulatory shock

  [4] Morgan & Mikhail p.447
  Section: Drug Interactions. rapid following parenteral (3–5 min) than oral (30–60 min) administration. Because metoclopramide is excreted in the urine, its dose should be decreased in patients with kidney dysfunction. Drug Interactions Antimuscarinic drugs (eg, atropine, glycopyrrolate) block the GI effects of metoclopramide. Metoclopramide decreases the absorption of orally administered cimetidine. Concurrent use of phenothiazines or butyrophenones (droperidol) increases the likelihood of extrapyramidal side effects. PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS Mechanism of Action These agents, including omeprazole (Prilosec), lansoprazole (Prevacid), rabeprazole (Aciphex), esomeprazole (Nexium), and pantoprazole (Protonix), bind to the proton pump of parietal cells in the gastric mucosa and inhibit secretion of hydrogen ions. Clinical Uses Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are indicated for the treatment of pep

  [5] Morgan & Mikhail p.1288
  Section: Minor oral surgical procedures, such as dental extractions, typically last no longer. medications must be immediately available to help ensure that any anticipated or unexpected anesthesia-related problem occurring in an office or clinic environment can be safely addressed with the same standard of care that is required in the hospital or ambulatory surgery center setting. Minor oral surgical procedures, such as dental extractions, typically last no longer than 1 h. A nerve block or local anesthetic infiltration is typically utilized. In adults, most oral surgeons use 2% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine or 0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine in quantities no greater than 12 mL and 8 mL, respectively. Articaine is commonly used in Europe. The anesthesia provider must be informed by the surgeon of the local anesthetic used and its concentration and volume injected so t

  [6] Morgan & Mikhail p.536
  Section: Although less used today, blind nasal intubation of spontaneously breathing patients. FIGURE 19–32 Radiograph demonstrating a 7.0-mm endotracheal tube placed through the cribriform plate into the cranial vault in a patient with a basilar skull fracture. Although less used today, blind nasal intubation of spontaneously breathing patients can be employed. In this technique, after a topical anesthetic is applied to the nostril and pharynx, a breathing tube is passed through the nasopharynx. Using breath sounds as a guide, the anesthetist directs it toward the glottis. When breath sounds are maximal, the anesthetist advances the tube during inspiration in an effort to blindly pass the tube into the trachea. Flexible Fiberoptic Intubation Fiberoptic intubation (FOI) is routinely performed in awake or sedated patients with problematic airways. FOI is ideal for: • A small mouth opening

  [7] Morgan & Mikhail p.660
  Section: Myocardial relaxation is a dynamic, not passive, process. The heart with preserved. experience salt retention, volume expansion, sympathetic stimulation, and vasoconstriction. The heart dilates to maintain stroke volume in spite of decreased contractility. Over time, compensatory mechanisms fail and contribute to the manifestations associated with heart failure (eg, dyspnea, dependent edema, tachycardia, decreased tissue perfusion). Patients with systolic heart failure are likely to present to surgery having been previously treated with diuretics, β-blockers, ACE inhibitors or ARBs, and possibly aldosterone antagonists. Electrolytes must be measured as diuretics frequently lead to hypokalemia. ARB or ACE inhibitor use may contribute to hypotension in the surgical patient with heart failure. ACE inhibitors are rarely associated with angioedema requiring emergency airway managemen


=== [11] TOPIC: Anticholinergic Toxidrome | domain: Internal medicine: emergency & acute care (cardiopulmonary resuscitation, trauma primary survey, toxicology & overdoses, environmental emergencies, anaphylaxis, acute abdomen) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] StatPearls: StatPearls   Anticholinergic Toxidrome p.4
  Section: Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes. den when prescribing new medications. Patients with dementia also have a relative contraindication to the use of anticholinergics. Dementia correlates with reduced acetylcholine in the brain and thus can become worse with the use of anticholinergics. [15] Glaucoma, hyperthyroidism, tachyarrhythmia, and prostate hypertrophy are all conditions negatively impacted by anticholinergic drugs and are prevalent in elderly populations. [15] Serum anticholinergic assay is one technique used to measure the total anticholinergic burden of all substances within an individual. [4] This technique has allowed for the scaling, from low to high, of anticholinergic activity levels within medications. Previously medications were labeled as either anticholinergic or not; having a more comprehensive scaling of drugs allows providers to weigh better the pros and con

  [1] StatPearls: StatPearls   Anticholinergic Toxidrome p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK555893 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK555893/ Topic: Anticholinergic Toxidrome Article Title: Anticholinergic Medications License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Anticholinergic Medications Noah Ghossein ; Michael Kang ; Anand D. Lakhkar . Authors Noah Ghossein 1 ; Michael Kang 2 ; Anand D. Lakhkar 3 . Last Update: May 8, 2023 . Continuing Education Activity Anticholinergic medications are used to manage and treat a wide range of diseases. This activity illustrates the indications, action, and contraindications for anticholinergic drugs as valuable agents in managing cholinergic toxicity, urinary incontinence, Parkinson disea

  [2] StatPearls: StatPearls   Anticholinergic Toxidrome p.3
  Section: General: Hyperthermia and anhidrosis [6]. across the large group of drugs with anticholinergic properties; many are available in oral and intravenous forms. For example, ipratropium, used in treating COPD, can be administered orally or intranasally. [13] Diphenhydramine can be administered orally, intramuscularly (IM), and intravenously (IV). [14] Antipsychotics are available in IM and oral forms, and atropine is available in IV and IM dose forms. Vecuronium and succinylcholine are available intravenously, and both oxybutynin and trihexyphenidyl administration is via the oral route. The adverse effects of anticholinergic medications divide into central and peripheral effects. Central effects result from the excess blockade of cholinergic receptors within the central nervous system, and peripheral adverse effects result from the blockade of exocrine glandular secretion, muscle co

  [3] StatPearls: StatPearls   Anticholinergic Toxidrome p.2
  Section: Diphenhydramine and other anti-histamines: FDA approved as a sleeping aid. Anticholinergic medications have a wide range of physiologic effects, including effects on circulation, respiration, alertness, and vision. [2] [3] Drugs with anticholinergic activity are useful for treating respiratory disorders (asthma, COPD), Parkinson’s, cardiovascular disease, urge incontinence, psychiatric disorders, depression, mydriasis, and allergies. [4] [5] [6] [7] More than 600 medications possess some level of anticholinergic activity, and except in the case of a few drugs, experts generally consider the anticholinergic properties to be the cause of adverse rather than therapeutic effects. [4] Examples of specific anticholinergic medications where the anticholinergic activity is deemed to be therapeutic are listed below, along with the conditions they treat: Ipratropium and tiotropium: Functi

  [4] StatPearls: StatPearls   Anticholinergic Toxidrome p.1
  Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK555893 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK555893/ Topic: Anticholinergic Toxidrome Article Title: Anticholinergic Medications License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf

  [5] StatPearls: StatPearls   Anticholinergic Toxidrome p.1
  This activity illustrates the indications, action, and contraindications for anticholinergic drugs as valuable agents in managing cholinergic toxicity, urinary incontinence, Parkinson disease, respiratory disorders, cardiovascular disease, and numerous other diseases

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Anticholinergic Toxidrome p.2
  [4] [5] [6] [7] More than 600 medications possess some level of anticholinergic activity, and except in the case of a few drugs, experts generally consider the anticholinergic properties to be the cause of adverse rather

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Anticholinergic Toxidrome p.2
  [4] Examples of specific anticholinergic medications where the anticholinergic activity is deemed to be therapeutic are listed below, along with the conditions they treat: Ipratropium and tiotropium: Function to dilate the bronchi and relieve shortness of


=== [12] TOPIC: Antimicrobial Selection: Aminoglycosides, Fluoroquinolones & Macrolides | domain: Internal medicine: infectious disease (sepsis & septic shock, pneumonia, UTI/pyelonephritis, cellulitis & necrotizing infections, endocarditis, meningitis, C. diff, HIV, antimicrobial selection & stewardship) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.1490
  Section: The principal pharmacodynamic change associated with aging is a reduced. prevent convenient generalizations. The principal pharmacodynamic change associated with aging is a reduced anesthetic requirement, represented by a reduced minimum alveolar concentration (MAC). Older adult patients display a lower dose requirement for propofol, etomidate, opioids, benzodiazepines, and barbiturates. The older adult patient typically presents for surgery with several chronic medical conditions, in addition to any acute surgical illness. Age is not a contraindication to anesthesia and surgery; however, perioperative morbidity and mortality are greater in older adults than younger surgical patients. As with pediatric patients, optimal anesthetic management of older adult patients depends upon an understanding of the normal changes in physiology, anatomy, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics 

  [1] Miller/Baby Miller p.114
  Section: Section II PHARMACOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Section II PHARMACOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY oxide, it is higher relative to MAC immobility (0.55 and 0.64 MAC, respectively).19 Similarly, MAC-amnesia is the concentration to prevent recall in 50% of a popula- tion. This value is not as well defined, but it is likely less than MAC-awake, and it is assumed that conscious recall is abolished at anesthetic concentrations prevent- ing a meaningful response (again, when measured in the absence of noxious stimuli). Another endpoint is MAC- BAR, or blunted autonomic response, at which 50% of a population will not mount an adrenergic response, evidenced by tachycardia, hypertension, and other signs, in response to a surgical stimulus. The MAC-BAR is approximately 1.5 to 1.6 times MAC.19 MAC is a measurement of a response to an anesthetic across a population. However, individual patients can have differ

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.737
  Section: TCI device widely available in countries outside North America. During cardiac. doses of 5–7 mcg/kg) or remifentanil (0–1 mcg/kg bolus followed by 0.25–1 mcg/kg/min). Target-controlled infusion (TCI) employs software and hardware (computerized infusion pump) to deliver a drug and achieve a set concentration at the effect site based on pharmacokinetic modeling. For propofol, the clinician sets only the patient’s age and weight, and the desired blood concentration on the DiprifusorTM, a TCI device widely available in countries outside North America. During cardiac surgery, a target propofol concentration of 1.5 to 2 mcg/mL is often used. When remifentanil (rather than a longer persisting agent) is used during anesthesia, one must anticipate the need for postoperative analgesia after its discontinuation. C. Mixed Intravenous/Inhalation Anesthesia Selection of anesthetic agents is o

  [3] Morgan & Mikhail p.466
  Section: FLUMAZENIL. Naltrexone is also a pure opioid antagonist with a high affinity for the μ receptor, but it has a significantly longer half-life than naloxone. Naltrexone is used orally for maintenance treatment of addiction. Chapter 48 reviews the use of the peripherally acting opioid receptor antagonists alvimopan and methylnaltrexone in the management and prevention of postoperative ileus as an element of enhanced perioperative recovery. Mechanism of Action Flumazenil, an imidazobenzodiazepine, is a specific and competitive antagonist of benzodiazepines at benzodiazepine receptors. Clinical Uses Flumazenil is useful in the reversal of benzodiazepine sedation and the treatment of benzodiazepine overdose. Although it promptly (onset <1 min) reverses the hypnotic effects of benzodiazepines, amnesia has proved to be less reliably prevented. Some evidence of respiratory depression may

  [4] Morgan & Mikhail p.284
  Section: As previously mentioned, the combination of opioids and benzodiazepines markedly. prolongation and intensification of its effects. As previously mentioned, the combination of opioids and benzodiazepines markedly reduces arterial blood pressure and peripheral vascular resistance. This synergistic interaction has often been observed in patients undergoing cardiac surgery who received benzodiazepines before or during induction with larger doses of opioids. Benzodiazepines reduce the minimum alveolar concentration of volatile anesthetics by as much as 30%. Ethanol, barbiturates, and other central nervous system depressants potentiate the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Mechanisms of Action Ketamine has multiple effects throughout the central nervous system, and it is well recognized to inhibit N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) channels. Investigators have studied ketamine actions on 

  [5] Morgan & Mikhail p.284
  Benzodiazepines reduce the minimum alveolar concentration of volatile anesthetics by as much as 30%

  [6] Morgan & Mikhail p.352
  Section: Antiparkinsonian drugs and tricyclic antidepressants have anticholinergic side effects. liver blood flow, such as cimetidine, will limit hepatic drug metabolism. Antiparkinsonian drugs and tricyclic antidepressants have anticholinergic side effects that augment the sedation produced by scopolamine. Long-acting sedatives, such as benzodiazepines, can delay awakening. Does anesthetic technique alter awakening? Preoperative medications can affect awakening. In particular, opioids and benzodiazepines can interfere with postoperative recovery. Intraoperative hyperventilation is a common cause of postoperative apnea. Because volatile agents and opioids raise the apneic threshold, the PaCO2 level at which spontaneous ventilation ceases, moderate postoperative hypoventilation may be required to stimulate the respiratory centers. Severe intraoperative hypotension or hypertension may lead

  [7] Morgan & Mikhail p.2098
  Section: Care of the Patient. Care of the Patient EMERGENCE FROM GENERAL ANESTHESIA Emergence from general anesthesia is ideally characterized by smooth and gradual awakening in a controlled environment. However, problems such as airway obstruction, shivering, agitation, delirium, pain, nausea and vomiting, hypothermia, and autonomic lability are frequently encountered. Patients receiving spinal or epidural anesthesia may experience decreases in blood pressure during transport or recovery; the sympatholytic effects of major conduction blocks may prevent compensatory reflex vasoconstriction when patients are moved or when they sit up. Following an inhalational anesthetic, the speed of emergence is directly proportional to alveolar ventilation but inversely proportional to the agent’s blood solubility (see Chapter 8). Hypoventilation delays emergence from inhalational anesthesia. As the du


=== [13] TOPIC: Antimicrobial Selection: Anaerobic Coverage & Metronidazole | domain: Internal medicine: infectious disease (sepsis & septic shock, pneumonia, UTI/pyelonephritis, cellulitis & necrotizing infections, endocarditis, meningitis, C. diff, HIV, antimicrobial selection & stewardship) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI p.24
  Section: HBO units, which may delay potentially life-saving surgical. effective therapy and crucial to ensure survival [144–146]. Un- necessary delay because of ancillary procedures such as CT scans or MRI should be avoided. Some trauma centers associat- ed with HBO units may have greater expertise in managing these aggressive infections, but proximity and speed of transfer should be carefully considered before transporting the patient to HBO units, which may delay potentially life-saving surgical RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ANIMAL AND HUMAN BITE WOUNDS PREVENTION AND XI. What Is the Role of Preemptive Antimicrobial Therapy to Prevent Infection for Dog or Cat Bites? Preemptive early antimicrobial therapy for 3–5 days is recommended for patients who (a) are immunocompromised, (b) are asplenic, (c) have advanced liver disease, (d) have preex- isting or resultant edema of the affected area, (e) hav

  [1] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI p.21
  Section: Diagnosis. numerous different anaerobic and aerobic organisms can be cul- tured from the involved fascial plane, with an average of 5 path- ogens in each wound. Most of the organisms originate from the bowel or genitourinary ﬂora (eg, coliforms and anaerobic bacteria). The diagnosis of fasciitis may not be apparent upon ﬁrst seeing the patient. Overlying cutaneous inﬂammation may resemble cellulitis. However, features that suggest involvement of deeper tissues include (1) severe pain that seems disproportional to the clinical ﬁndings; (2) failure to respond to initial antibiotic ther- apy; (3) the hard, wooden feel of the subcutaneous tissue, ex- tending beyond the area of apparent skin involvement; (4) systemic toxicity, often with altered mental status; (5) edema or tenderness extending beyond the cutaneous erythema; (6) crepitus, indicating gas in the tissues; (7) bullous les

  [2] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA ATS 2019 CAP Executive Summary p.8
  Section: Reasons included the performance of. against speciﬁc risk factors that increase the risk of individual choices, such as documented b-lactam or macrolide allergy, cardiac arrhythmia (macrolides), vascular disease (ﬂuoroquinolones), and history of infection with Clostridium difﬁcile. In particular, despite the concern regarding adverse events associated with ﬂuoroquinolones, the panel believed that ﬂuoroquinolone therapy was justiﬁed for adults with comorbidities and CAP managed in the outpatient setting. Reasons included the performance of ﬂuoroquinolones in numerous studies of outpatient CAP (17–22) and inpatient CAP (see inpatient CAP section), the very low resistance rates in common bacterial causes of CAP, their coverage of both typical and atypical organisms, their oral bioavailability, the convenience of monotherapy, and the relative rarity of serious adverse events related

  [3] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI p.25
  Section: Therefore, treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanate, ampicillin-. streptococci, S. aureus, and Eikenella corrodens, as well as with multiple anaerobic organisms, including Fusobacterium, Pep- tostreptococcus, Prevotella, and Porphyromonas species. Eikenel- la corrodens is resistant to ﬁrst-generation cephalosporins, macrolides, clindamycin, and aminoglycosides (Table 5). Therefore, treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanate, ampicillin- sulbactam, or ertapenem is recommended; if there is history of hypersensitivity to β-lactams, a ﬂuoroquinolone, such as cip- roﬂoxacin or levoﬂoxacin plus metronidazole, or moxiﬂoxacin as a single agent is recommended. Broader empirical coverage for abscesses might yield better therapeutic results. Additional- ly, a more focused therapy for nonpurulent infected wounds could allow narrower therapy. Cultures are often not done on wounds, and empirical th

  [4] Stanford CA-1 p.91
  Section: Why Antibiotics?. Why Antibiotics? In 1984 a study including 51 acute care hospitals in New York State found that surgical site infection (SSI) was the most common adverse surgical event (and the second most common adverse event overall). Perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis – administration of abx prior to surgery to prevent surgical site infections, but best practice also includes sterility (surgeon and instruments), skin prep (clipping hair, allowing skin antiseptic to dry) Barash, Paul G. Clinical Anesthesia. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer/Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. Print. SSIsnow a marker of quality of care in the US, Medicare no longer reimburses for certain SSIs (ie mediastinitis after cardiac surgery, SSIs post-bariatric surgery & some orthopedic procedures) Timing of prophylaxis • Antibiotic therapy should be given within 60 min (ideally: 15-45 mins) prior to su

  [5] Morgan & Mikhail p.1313
  Section: Single or continuous peripheral nerve blocks, alone or in combination, can provide. arthroplasty with muscle-sparing approaches have been described. With proper patient selection, these techniques may reduce quadriceps muscle damage, facilitating earlier achievement of range-of-motion and ambulation goals, and may allow for short-stay admission or even same-day discharge in select situations. Anesthetic management and postoperative analgesia should facilitate an accelerated, enhanced recovery program. Single or continuous peripheral nerve blocks, alone or in combination, can provide target-specific pain control and facilitate early rehabilitation. Continuous peripheral nerve block catheters with subsequent perineural local anesthetic infusions have been shown to decrease time to meet discharge criteria for TKA. The management of perineural catheters takes a hands-on team approac

  [6] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI p.19
  Section: Necrotizing Fasciitis. surgery. They can be monomicrobial, usually from streptococci or less commonly community-acquired MRSA, Aeromonas hy- drophila, or Vibrio vulniﬁcus, or polymicrobial, involving a mixed aerobe–anaerobe bacterial ﬂora. Although many speciﬁc variations of necrotizing soft tissue infections have been de- scribed based on etiology, microbiology, and speciﬁc anatomic location of the infection, the initial approach to diagnosis, anti- microbial treatment, and surgical intervention is similar for all forms and is more important than determining the speciﬁc var- iant. Early in the course, distinguishing between a cellulitis that should respond to antimicrobial treatment alone and a necrotiz- ing infection that requires operative intervention is critical but may be difﬁcult. Necrotizing Fasciitis Necrotizing fasciitis is an aggressive subcutaneous infection that tra

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Shock  Classification & Pathophysiology p.11
  Section: Differential Diagnosis. ld guide antimicrobial therapy for HAP and VAP. If cultures cannot be obtained, empiric treatment should be initiated based on institutional guidelines and local antibiograms. [36] Empiric treatment for VAP typically includes coverage for P aeruginosa, MRSA, and other gram-negative bacilli. Dual anti-pseudomonal therapy may be warranted, depending on the patient's risk factors and resistance patterns. In cases of suspected aspiration pneumonia, empiric coverage for oral anaerobes should be included. Antibiotic regimens should be de-escalated based on culture results and the patient's clinical stability. A lack of clinical improvement within 72 hours or rapid deterioration despite appropriate therapy should prompt an evaluation for complications or alternative sources of infection. VAP prevention strategies include minimizing mechanical ventilation duratio


=== [14] TOPIC: Antimicrobial Selection: Glycopeptides, Lipopeptides & MRSA Agents | domain: Internal medicine: infectious disease (sepsis & septic shock, pneumonia, UTI/pyelonephritis, cellulitis & necrotizing infections, endocarditis, meningitis, C. diff, HIV, antimicrobial selection & stewardship) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI p.32
  Section: Documented clinical and microbiologic SSTIs should be. Documented clinical and microbiologic SSTIs should be treated based on antimicrobial susceptibilities of isolated organ- isms (strong, high). 65. It is recommended that the duration of treatment for most bacterial SSTIs should be for 7–14 days (strong, moderate). 66. Surgical intervention is recommended for drainage of soft tissue abscess after marrow recovery or for a progressive polymicrobial necrotizing fasciitis or myonecrosis (strong, low). 67. Adjunct colony-stimulating factor therapy (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor [G-CSF], granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor [GM-CSF]) or granulocyte transfu- sions are not routinely recommended (weak, moderate). 68. Acyclovir should be administered to patients suspected or conﬁrmed to have cutaneous or disseminated HSV or VZV infection (strong, moderate). Evidence 

  [1] Society Guideline p.19
  Section: Antimicrobial Choice. e1081 limited availability in some settings including LMICs, the panel issued a weak recommendation against using procalcitonin to guide antimicrobial initiation in addi- tion to clinical evaluation. Antimicrobial Choice The decision on whether to include an antibiotic active against MRSA in an empiric treatment regimen for sepsis and septic shock depends upon 1) the likelihood that the patient’s infection is caused by MRSA; 2) the risk of harm associated with withholding treatment for MRSA in a patient with MRSA; and 3) the risk of harm associated with MRSA treatment in a patient without MRSA. MRSA accounts for approximately 5% of culture- positive infections among critically ill patients (133), and may be decreasing according to some reports (134, 135). The incidence of MRSA varies, however, by region (ranging from ~2% in Western Europe to 10% in North Am

  [2] StatPearls: StatPearls   Infective Endocarditis  Treatment & Surgery p.7
  Section: Rise in Antimicrobial Resistance and Healthcare Spending. 2010. [17] Azithromycin and clindamycin are recommended as second-line agents for prophylaxis of cutaneous infection in patients with penicillin allergies. Azithromycin belongs to the macrolide class of antibiotics and is associated with common adverse effects such as hypersensitivity reactions and photosensitivity. However, it is essential to note that azithromycin can also cause more severe adverse effects, including QT prolongation and a rare arrhythmia called torsades de pointes. Careful monitoring and appropriate patient selection are essential when using these antibiotics as alternatives to penicillin in allergic patients. [18] Clindamycin, a lincosamide antibiotic, is known to have a higher incidence of adverse effects such as rashes and diarrhea. However, a more severe adverse effect associated with clindamycin us

  [3] StatPearls p.7
  esistant strains, resistance mediated by the mecA gene. Infection often follows viral illness, particularly influenza, with enhanced bacterial adhesion and toxin production contributing to rapid progression. Clinical presentation includes fever, dyspnea, and productive cough, with potential for necrotizing pneumonia, bacteremia, and sepsis. Diagnosis relies on clinical suspicion, supported by imaging findings of infiltrates or cavitary lesions, and microbiologic confirmation from respiratory and blood cultures. Management requires prompt initiation of empiric therapy targeting MRSA when risk factors exist, followed by de-escalation based on culture results, alongside supportive care and monitoring for complications. [27] [28] Interprofessional collaboration is essential to optimize outcomes and reduce morbidity. Physicians and advanced practitioners lead diagnostic evaluation and therape

  [4] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2025 Complicated UTI Executive Summary p.7
  Section: STEP 3: OTHER PATIENT-SPECIFIC CONSIDERATIONS (prevention of possible undesirable. STEP 3: OTHER PATIENT-SPECIFIC CONSIDERATIONS (prevention of possible undesirable events) In patients with cUTI (including pyelonephritis), should selection of empiric antibiotic therapy be further guided by patient-specific considerations? In patients suspected of cUTI, empiric antibiotic therapy selection should account for patient-specific considerations (e.g. risk of allergic reaction, contraindications, or drug-drug interactions) to avoid preventable adverse events (good practice statement). STEP 4: ANTIBIOGRAM (tailoring empiric antibiotic therapy in septic patients) In patients with cUTI (including pyelonephritis), should selection of empiric antibiotic therapy be further tailored by consulting an antibiogram? I. In patients with sepsis assumed to be caused by complicated UTI (including acu

  [5] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA ATS 2019 CAP Executive Summary p.8
  Section: Reasons included the performance of. against speciﬁc risk factors that increase the risk of individual choices, such as documented b-lactam or macrolide allergy, cardiac arrhythmia (macrolides), vascular disease (ﬂuoroquinolones), and history of infection with Clostridium difﬁcile. In particular, despite the concern regarding adverse events associated with ﬂuoroquinolones, the panel believed that ﬂuoroquinolone therapy was justiﬁed for adults with comorbidities and CAP managed in the outpatient setting. Reasons included the performance of ﬂuoroquinolones in numerous studies of outpatient CAP (17–22) and inpatient CAP (see inpatient CAP section), the very low resistance rates in common bacterial causes of CAP, their coverage of both typical and atypical organisms, their oral bioavailability, the convenience of monotherapy, and the relative rarity of serious adverse events related

  [6] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI p.16
  Section: MRSA is uncommon and treatment for that organism is usually. incidence of other MRSA-related SSTIs demonstrated that treatment with β-lactams, such as cefazolin or oxacillin, was successful in 96% of patients, suggesting that cellulitis due to MRSA is uncommon and treatment for that organism is usually unnecessary [50].However, coverage for MRSA may be prudent in cellulitis associated with penetrating trauma, especially from illicit drug use, purulent drainage, or with concurrent evidence of MRSA infection elsewhere. Options for treatment of MRSA in those circumstances (Table 2) include intravenous drugs (vancomycin, daptomycin, linezolid, or telavancin) or oral ther- apy with doxycycline, clindamycin, or SMX-TMP. If coverage for both streptococci and MRSA is desired for oral therapy, op- tions include clindamycin alone or the combination of either SMX-TMP or doxycycline with a 

  [7] MGH Housestaff Manual p.122
  Section: Infectious Disease. Infectious Disease Bloodstream Infections & Endocarditis Shannon Cleary B L O O D S T R E A M I N F E C T I O N S (BSI) Evaluation (JAMA 2012;308;502) 1. Sources: lines, procedures, meningitis, endocarditis, osteomyelitis (OM), septic arthritis, PNA, UTI, SSTI, abscesses 2. When should I/should I not send blood cultures? (JHM 2017;12:510; JHM 2016;11:336) Predictive signs/symptoms Predictive clinical scenario Other Considerations Fever+chills (+LR 1.1-6.1); rigors (+LR 4.7, Amer J Med 2005;118:1417); SIRS (-LR 0.09), normal food intake (-LR 0.18) High risk: septic shock (38-69% ⊕ BCx), meningitis (53%) Medium risk: pyelonephritis (19-25%) Low risk: cellulitis (2%), CAP (7%), other community-onset fever (13%) Immunocompromised (neutropenia, HIV); hard-to-isolate source (OM, septic arthritis) 3. How should I send blood cultures? PRIOR to abx, 2 sets minimum, id


=== [15] TOPIC: Antimicrobial Stewardship | domain: Internal medicine: infectious disease (sepsis & septic shock, pneumonia, UTI/pyelonephritis, cellulitis & necrotizing infections, endocarditis, meningitis, C. diff, HIV, antimicrobial selection & stewardship) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.2130
  Section: Increases in pulmonary blood flow that exceed the capacity of the pulmonary. pulmonary capillaries and secondarily increases Pc′. Pulmonary venous hypertension may result from left ventricular failure, mitral stenosis, or left atrial obstruction. Increases in pulmonary blood flow that exceed the capacity of the pulmonary vasculature will also raise Pc′. Marked increases in pulmonary blood flow can be the result of large left-to-right cardiac or peripheral shunts, hypervolemia (fluid overload), or extremes of anemia or exercise. Management of cardiogenic pulmonary edema involves decreasing the pressure in the pulmonary capillaries. Generally, this includes measures to improve left ventricular function, correct fluid overload with diuretics, or reduce pulmonary blood flow. Pharmacological treatment of acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema has included oxygen, morphine, diuretics (espe

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.2125
  Section: CHAPTER 57. CHAPTER 57 Common Clinical Concerns in Critical Care Pranav Shah, MD KEY CONCEPTS Pulmonary edema usually results from either an increase in the net hydrostatic pressure across the capillaries (hemodynamic or cardiogenic pulmonary edema) or an increase in the permeability of the alveolar–capillary membrane (increased permeability edema or noncardiogenic pulmonary edema). Reduced tidal volumes are associated with the greatest improvement in outcome after acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) of any intervention subjected to a randomized clinical trial to date. Early elective tracheal intubation is advisable when there are obvious signs of heat injury to the airway. Patients with hoarseness and stridor require immediate tracheal intubation or a surgical airway. The criteria developed by the Acute Kidney Injury Network are now most often used to stage acute kidney 

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.874
  Section: Restrictive Pulmonary Disease. and secretions, absence of significant hypercapnia and acidosis, and absence of respiratory depression due to residual anesthetic agents. Patients with an FEV1 below 50% may require a period of postoperative ventilation, particularly following upper abdominal and thoracic operations. Restrictive Pulmonary Disease Restrictive pulmonary diseases are characterized by decreased lung compliance. Lung volumes are typically reduced, with preservation of normal expiratory flow rates. Thus, both FEV1 and FVC are reduced, but the FEV1/FVC ratio is normal. Restrictive pulmonary diseases include many acute and chronic intrinsic pulmonary disorders, as well as extrinsic (extrapulmonary) disorders involving the pleura, chest wall, diaphragm, or neuromuscular function. Reduced lung compliance increases the work of breathing, resulting in a characteristic rapid, b

  [3] Morgan & Mikhail p.2176
  Section: O2 toxicity is attributed to the intracellular generation of highly reactive O2. Prolonged exposure to high concentrations of O2 may damage the lungs. Toxicity is dependent both on the partial pressure of O2 in the inspired gas and the duration of exposure. Alveolar rather than arterial O2 tension is most important in the development of O2 toxicity. Although 100% O2 for up to 10 to 20 h is generally considered safe, concentrations greater than 50% to 60% are undesirable for longer periods as they may lead to pulmonary toxicity. O2 toxicity is attributed to the intracellular generation of highly reactive O2 metabolites (free radicals) such as superoxide and activated hydroxyl ions, singlet O2, and hydrogen peroxide. A high concentration of O2 increases the likelihood of generating toxic species. These metabolites are cytotoxic because they readily react with DNA, proteins, and li

  [4] Morgan & Mikhail p.979
  Section: Anesthesia for Head Trauma. Anesthesia for Head Trauma Head injuries are a contributory factor in up to 50% of deaths due to trauma. Most patients with head trauma are young, and many (10–40%) have associated intraabdominal or intrathoracic injuries, long bone fractures, or spinal injuries. The outcome from a head injury is dependent not only on the extent of the neuronal damage at the time of injury but also on the occurrence of any secondary insults or sequelae from other injuries or complications (see Chapter 39). These secondary insults include (1) systemic factors such as hypoxemia, hypercapnia, or hypotension; (2) the formation and expansion of an epidural, subdural, or intracerebral hematoma; and (3) sustained intracranial hypertension. Head-injured patients may have a wide variety of other injuries, may arrive at the hospital in an intoxicated state, and are subject to t

  [5] Morgan & Mikhail p.2215
  Section: Acinus, 720. Acinus, 720 Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), 1227 Action potentials, 260, 261f Activated charcoal, 1356 Activated clotting time (ACT), 453, 474, 733 Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), 733 Activated protein C, 828, 829f Active humidifiers, 62 Acupuncture, 1133 Acute adrenal insufficiency, 769 Acute angle-closure glaucoma, 231 Acute aortic regurgitation, 425 Acute flaccid paralysis (AFP), 646 Acute gastrointestinal hemorrhage, 1353 Acute hepatitis drug-induced, 739–741 intraoperative considerations, 741 viral, 735 Acute herpes zoster/postherpetic neuralgia, 1096 Acute ischemic stroke, 617 Acute kidney failure, 688 Acute kidney injury (AKI), 666–668, 668t, 680 azotemia associated with, 1342, 1342t biomarkers of, 684f description of, 1342 differential diagnosis, 680f drugs that cause, 669t etiology of, 1343t, 1343–1344 in high-risk patients, 671 non

  [6] Society Guideline p.74
  Section: 434. Papazian L, Aubron C, Brochard L, et al: Formal guidelines:. 434. Papazian L, Aubron C, Brochard L, et al: Formal guidelines: Management of acute respiratory distress syndrome. Ann Intensive Care 2019; 9:69 435. Laffey JG, Bellani G, Pham T, et al; LUNG SAFE Investigators and the ESICM Trials Group: Potentially modifiable factors contributing to outcome from acute respiratory distress syn- drome: The LUNG SAFE study. Intensive Care Med 2016; 42:1865–1876 436. Villar J, Martín-Rodríguez C, Domínguez-Berrot AM, et al; Spanish Initiative for Epidemiology, Stratification and Therapies for ARDS (SIESTA) Investigators Network: A quantile analysis of plateau and driving pressures: Effects on mortality in patients with acute respiratory distress syn- drome receiving lung-protective ventilation. Crit Care Med 2017; 45:843–850 437. Hodgson CL, Cooper DJ, Arabi Y, et al: Maximal recru

  [7] Society Guideline p.37
  Section: Protective Ventilation in Acute Respiratory. Protective Ventilation in Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) This recommendation is the same as that of the pre- vious guidelines. Of note, the studies that guide the recommendations in this section enrolled patients using criteria from the American-European Consensus Criteria Definition for Acute Lung Injury and ARDS (422). For the current document, we used the 2012 Berlin definition and the terms mild, moderate, and severe ARDS (PaO2/FiO2 ≤ 300, ≤ 200, and ≤ 100 mm Hg, respectively) (423). Several multicenter RCTs have been performed in patients with established ARDS to evaluate the effects of limiting inspiratory pressure through moderation of tidal volume (424–427). These studies showed differing results, which may have been caused by differences in airway pressures in the treat- ment and control groups (423, 424, 428). Se


=== [16] TOPIC: Antiphospholipid syndrome | domain: Internal medicine: rheumatology, immunology & allergy (gout & crystal arthropathy, SLE, RA, vasculitides, anaphylaxis & angioedema, drug reactions) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] StatPearls: StatPearls   Antiphospholipid syndrome p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK430980 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK430980/ Topic: Antiphospholipid syndrome Article Title: Antiphospholipid Syndrome License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Antiphospholipid Syndrome Preeti Rout ; Amandeep Goyal ; Mayank Singhal . Authors Preeti Rout 1 ; Amandeep Goyal 2 ; Mayank Singhal 3 . Last Update: May 6, 2024 . Continuing Education Activity Antiphospholipid syndrome is characterized by the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies in the setting of thrombosis or pregnancy loss or complications. These antibodies are autoantibodies directed against phospholipid-binding proteins and are composed of 3 main categories. Des

  [1] Miller/Baby Miller p.446
  Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT factors and platelets consumed in the process. The use of anticoagulants such as heparin remains controversial with recommendations that its use be limited to condi- tions with the highest thrombotic risk. Antifibrinolytic therapy generally is contraindicated in DIC owing to the potential for catastrophic thrombotic complications. Platelet Disorders In the nonbleeding patient, treatment of thrombocyto- penia in the form of platelet transfusion is usually with- held until the platelet count is less than 10,000/μL. In the patient who is actively bleeding or requires surgical intervention, platelet transfusion is recommended to a goal of 50,000/μL, or in some cases, such as intracra- nial hemorrhage or neurosurgery, 100,000/μL.10 Indi- viduals who r

  [2] Miller/Baby Miller p.620
  Other risk factors include nulliparity, multigestation pregnancy, pregestational diabetes, systemic lupus erythematosus or antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, renal disease, body mass index greater than 30 kg/m2, maternal age <17 or >35 years

  [3] Miller/Baby Miller p.446
  Acquired Thrombotic Disorders Antiphospholipid Syndrome Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) describes an acquired autoimmune disorder characterized by venous and/ or arterial thromboses and recurrent pregnancy loss

  [4] Miller/Baby Miller p.909
  Section: Acute lung injury (ALI),. Acute lung injury (ALI), transfusion-related, 452 Acute pain, 655, 717 analgesia for, 77 Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), 742 Berlin denition of, 742b treatment for, 742 triggers of, 742t ventilatory management, low tidal volumes/permissive hypercapnia for, 407 Acute tubular necrosis, 663–664 oliguria (preoperative differential diagnosis), 504t Adductor canal block, 329, 329f Adenine, for blood storage, 448 Adenoidectomy, 554 Adenosine diphosphatase, 415 Adenosine diphosphate (ADP), 415, 421 Adenosine, in cardiopulmonary resuscitation, 818t Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 71 Adjuncts, trauma and, 774 Adjustable pressure-limiting (APL) valve, 240 ADLs. See Activities of daily living Adrenal cortex dysfunction, 526 Adrenal crisis, 527 Adrenal insufciency, 526 α1-Adrenergic agonists, 76 α2-Adrenergic agonists, 76 β-Adrenergic antagonists, 78 β-A

  [5] Miller/Baby Miller p.912
  Section: Anesthetic breathing circuits, 238. Anesthetic breathing circuits, 238 circle breathing systems, 239, 239f circle system function, 242 Mapleson breathing systems, 243, Anesthetic breathing circuits, anesthesia workstation, 238 Anesthetic circuit, inhaled anesthetics, Anesthetic drugs choices, trauma bay and, 771 increasing age and, 48 interactions, 42, 43f–45f intraocular pressure and, 547 neurodegeneration and, 186 age-dependent vulnerability of, durations and concentrations of, sedative drugs and, 188 obesity and, 45, 46f, 46t Anesthetic-induced developmental neurotoxicity (AIDN), 186 aberrant glial development of, 187 alleviation of, 188 altered dendritic development and, Alzheimer-related neuropathology and, 187 characterization of, 186, 187t impeded neurogenesis and, 187 neurocognitive function and, 187 neuroinammation and, 187 pathologic apoptosis and, 186 spinal cord and

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Antiphospholipid syndrome p.9
  Section: Treatment / Management. LISA on 2 or more occasions, at least 12 weeks apart. Detection of IgG or IgM anti-β2GPI antibodies in serum or plasma at moderate-to-high titers (>99th percentile) measured by standard ELISA on 2 or more occasions, 12 or more weeks apart. The updated 2023 American College of Rheumatology/European Alliance of Associations for Rheumatology (EULAR) APS classification criteria include an entry criterion of at least one positive antiphospholipid antibody (APLA) test within 3 years of an APS-associated clinical criterion. These criteria are followed by additional weighted criteria, with a score range of 1 to 7 points each, clustered into 6 clinical domains, such as macrovascular venous thromboembolism, macrovascular arterial thrombosis, microvascular, obstetric, cardiac valve, and hematologic, and 2 laboratory domains, such as lupus anticoagulant tests and IgG

  [7] Miller/Baby Miller p.620
  Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS of the second twin. When the second twin is breech, epidural analgesia allows optimal analgesia and relaxa- tion of the perineum during delivery of the head or if instrumented vaginal delivery is required to deliver the second twin. Administration of agents that provide rapid uterine relaxation (e.g., IV nitroglycerin) may be required to improve delivery conditions for the second twin and reduce the risk of head entrapment. Administration of a small volume of a more concentrated local anesthetic near delivery can optimize analgesia and potentially allow for rapid transition to neuraxial anesthesia for cesarean delivery in the event of head entrapment and/ or fetal bradycardia. Abnormal Presentations Breech Presentation Singleton breech presentation at term is uncommon (3% to 4%). However, 


=== [17] TOPIC: Antiseizure Medication Pharmacology & Selection | domain: Internal medicine: neurology (ischemic & hemorrhagic stroke, seizures & status epilepticus, altered mental status & delirium, headache, neuromuscular weakness, spinal cord syndromes) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Miller/Baby Miller p.114
  Section: Section II PHARMACOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Section II PHARMACOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY oxide, it is higher relative to MAC immobility (0.55 and 0.64 MAC, respectively).19 Similarly, MAC-amnesia is the concentration to prevent recall in 50% of a popula- tion. This value is not as well defined, but it is likely less than MAC-awake, and it is assumed that conscious recall is abolished at anesthetic concentrations prevent- ing a meaningful response (again, when measured in the absence of noxious stimuli). Another endpoint is MAC- BAR, or blunted autonomic response, at which 50% of a population will not mount an adrenergic response, evidenced by tachycardia, hypertension, and other signs, in response to a surgical stimulus. The MAC-BAR is approximately 1.5 to 1.6 times MAC.19 MAC is a measurement of a response to an anesthetic across a population. However, individual patients can have differ

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.1490
  Section: The principal pharmacodynamic change associated with aging is a reduced. prevent convenient generalizations. The principal pharmacodynamic change associated with aging is a reduced anesthetic requirement, represented by a reduced minimum alveolar concentration (MAC). Older adult patients display a lower dose requirement for propofol, etomidate, opioids, benzodiazepines, and barbiturates. The older adult patient typically presents for surgery with several chronic medical conditions, in addition to any acute surgical illness. Age is not a contraindication to anesthesia and surgery; however, perioperative morbidity and mortality are greater in older adults than younger surgical patients. As with pediatric patients, optimal anesthetic management of older adult patients depends upon an understanding of the normal changes in physiology, anatomy, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics 

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.352
  Section: Antiparkinsonian drugs and tricyclic antidepressants have anticholinergic side effects. liver blood flow, such as cimetidine, will limit hepatic drug metabolism. Antiparkinsonian drugs and tricyclic antidepressants have anticholinergic side effects that augment the sedation produced by scopolamine. Long-acting sedatives, such as benzodiazepines, can delay awakening. Does anesthetic technique alter awakening? Preoperative medications can affect awakening. In particular, opioids and benzodiazepines can interfere with postoperative recovery. Intraoperative hyperventilation is a common cause of postoperative apnea. Because volatile agents and opioids raise the apneic threshold, the PaCO2 level at which spontaneous ventilation ceases, moderate postoperative hypoventilation may be required to stimulate the respiratory centers. Severe intraoperative hypotension or hypertension may lead

  [3] Morgan & Mikhail p.737
  Section: TCI device widely available in countries outside North America. During cardiac. doses of 5–7 mcg/kg) or remifentanil (0–1 mcg/kg bolus followed by 0.25–1 mcg/kg/min). Target-controlled infusion (TCI) employs software and hardware (computerized infusion pump) to deliver a drug and achieve a set concentration at the effect site based on pharmacokinetic modeling. For propofol, the clinician sets only the patient’s age and weight, and the desired blood concentration on the DiprifusorTM, a TCI device widely available in countries outside North America. During cardiac surgery, a target propofol concentration of 1.5 to 2 mcg/mL is often used. When remifentanil (rather than a longer persisting agent) is used during anesthesia, one must anticipate the need for postoperative analgesia after its discontinuation. C. Mixed Intravenous/Inhalation Anesthesia Selection of anesthetic agents is o

  [4] Morgan & Mikhail p.466
  Section: FLUMAZENIL. Naltrexone is also a pure opioid antagonist with a high affinity for the μ receptor, but it has a significantly longer half-life than naloxone. Naltrexone is used orally for maintenance treatment of addiction. Chapter 48 reviews the use of the peripherally acting opioid receptor antagonists alvimopan and methylnaltrexone in the management and prevention of postoperative ileus as an element of enhanced perioperative recovery. Mechanism of Action Flumazenil, an imidazobenzodiazepine, is a specific and competitive antagonist of benzodiazepines at benzodiazepine receptors. Clinical Uses Flumazenil is useful in the reversal of benzodiazepine sedation and the treatment of benzodiazepine overdose. Although it promptly (onset <1 min) reverses the hypnotic effects of benzodiazepines, amnesia has proved to be less reliably prevented. Some evidence of respiratory depression may

  [5] Morgan & Mikhail p.2275
  Section: Ibutilide, 380t, 1301t. Ibutilide, 380t, 1301t Ileal conduit, 710 Imidazobenzodiazepine. See Flumazenil Imipenem, 907t Imipramine, 1101t Immunoglobulin E (IgE), 540, 1271f Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies, 640 Immunomodulating nutrients, 1250 Immunomodulation, 152 Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs), 412–413, 413, 953–954 Inamrinone, 472t, 473, 907t Incisura, 353 Indirect Coombs test, 1222 Indomethacin, 1099t Induction agents. See also specific agents barbiturates, 594 benzodiazepines, 595 cerebral physiology affected by, 594–595 etomidate, 595 history of, 4 ketamine, 595, 596f opioids, 595 propofol, 595 Induction team, 28 Induction technique, 606 Infectious croup, 928–929 Infectious motor neuronopathies, 646–647 Inferior alveolar nerve block, 1111f Informed consent, 304 Infraclavicular block, 1021–1024, 1022f–1023f Infusion pumps, 1014f Inhalation anesthesia. See sp

  [6] Morgan & Mikhail p.284
  Section: As previously mentioned, the combination of opioids and benzodiazepines markedly. prolongation and intensification of its effects. As previously mentioned, the combination of opioids and benzodiazepines markedly reduces arterial blood pressure and peripheral vascular resistance. This synergistic interaction has often been observed in patients undergoing cardiac surgery who received benzodiazepines before or during induction with larger doses of opioids. Benzodiazepines reduce the minimum alveolar concentration of volatile anesthetics by as much as 30%. Ethanol, barbiturates, and other central nervous system depressants potentiate the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Mechanisms of Action Ketamine has multiple effects throughout the central nervous system, and it is well recognized to inhibit N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) channels. Investigators have studied ketamine actions on 

  [7] Morgan & Mikhail p.2098
  Section: Care of the Patient. Care of the Patient EMERGENCE FROM GENERAL ANESTHESIA Emergence from general anesthesia is ideally characterized by smooth and gradual awakening in a controlled environment. However, problems such as airway obstruction, shivering, agitation, delirium, pain, nausea and vomiting, hypothermia, and autonomic lability are frequently encountered. Patients receiving spinal or epidural anesthesia may experience decreases in blood pressure during transport or recovery; the sympatholytic effects of major conduction blocks may prevent compensatory reflex vasoconstriction when patients are moved or when they sit up. Following an inhalational anesthetic, the speed of emergence is directly proportional to alveolar ventilation but inversely proportional to the agent’s blood solubility (see Chapter 8). Hypoventilation delays emergence from inhalational anesthesia. As the du


=== [18] TOPIC: Aspiration Pneumonia & Pneumonitis | domain: Internal medicine: infectious disease (sepsis & septic shock, pneumonia, UTI/pyelonephritis, cellulitis & necrotizing infections, endocarditis, meningitis, C. diff, HIV, antimicrobial selection & stewardship) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.438
  Section: Naloxone reverses the agonist activity associated with endogenous or exogenous. increase in respiratory rate. Doxapram is not a specific reversal agent and should not replace standard supportive therapy (ie, mechanical ventilation). Naloxone reverses the agonist activity associated with endogenous or exogenous opioid compounds. Flumazenil is useful in the reversal of benzodiazepine sedation and the treatment of benzodiazepine overdose. Aspiration does not necessarily result in aspiration pneumonia. The seriousness of the lung damage depends on the volume and composition of the aspirate. Patients are at risk if their gastric volume is greater than 25 mL (0.4 mL/kg) and their gastric pH is less than 2.5. Many drugs are routinely administered perioperatively to protect against aspiration pneumonitis, to prevent or reduce the incidence of perianesthetic nausea and vomiting, or to re

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.875
  Section: B. Intraoperative Management. failure may also require treatment. Large pleural effusions usually require drainage before anesthesia. Similarly, massive abdominal distention should be relieved by nasogastric suction or drainage of ascites. Persistent hypoxemia may require mechanical ventilation. B. Intraoperative Management Selection of anesthetic agents should be tailored to each patient. Surgical patients with acute pulmonary disorders, such as ARDS, cardiogenic pulmonary edema, or pneumonia, are critically ill; anesthetic management should be a continuation of their preoperative intensive care. Increased inspired oxygen concentrations and PEEP may be required. The decreased lung compliance results in high peak inspiratory pressures during positive-pressure ventilation and increases the risk of barotrauma and volutrauma. Tidal volumes for these patients should be reduced to 4 

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.874
  ACUTE INTRINSIC PULMONARY DISORDERS Acute intrinsic pulmonary disorders include pulmonary edema (including the acute respiratory distress syndrome [ARDS]), infectious pneumonia, and aspiration pneumonitis

  [3] Morgan & Mikhail p.874
  Section: Restrictive Pulmonary Disease. and secretions, absence of significant hypercapnia and acidosis, and absence of respiratory depression due to residual anesthetic agents. Patients with an FEV1 below 50% may require a period of postoperative ventilation, particularly following upper abdominal and thoracic operations. Restrictive Pulmonary Disease Restrictive pulmonary diseases are characterized by decreased lung compliance. Lung volumes are typically reduced, with preservation of normal expiratory flow rates. Thus, both FEV1 and FVC are reduced, but the FEV1/FVC ratio is normal. Restrictive pulmonary diseases include many acute and chronic intrinsic pulmonary disorders, as well as extrinsic (extrapulmonary) disorders involving the pleura, chest wall, diaphragm, or neuromuscular function. Reduced lung compliance increases the work of breathing, resulting in a characteristic rapid, b

  [4] Stanford CA-1 p.74
  Section: Pulmonary Aspiration. Pulmonary Aspiration – Follow NPO guidelines for routine elective cases – Use metoclopramide, H2-blockers, and antacids in high-risk patients – Consider awake, regional anesthetic (e.g. spinal or epidural for c-sections) – Consider awake, upright intubation and/or RSI – If present, leave NGT to suction – Apply cricoid pressure until ETT position confirmed • Although this practice is debated, one could contend it is considered the ‘standard of care.’ – Minimize bag-mask PPV and/or keep pressure <20 cmH2O – Extubate after recovery of protective reflexes – Remain vigilant: aspiration occurs during emergence and maintenance and not just during induction NPO Guidelines • There is no evidence for the routine use of metoclopramide, H2- blockers, proton pump inhibitors, antiemetics, or anticholinergics in preventing aspiration or in reducing its morbidity/mortality

  [5] StatPearls: StatPearls   Aspiration Pneumonia and Pneumonitis p.5
  Section: During the physical examination, cognitive assessment should. a is polymicrobial, with aerobic gram-negative bacilli as the predominant pathogens and aerobic gram-positive organisms as the second most common cause. [1] Inconsistent definitions and diagnostic practices have posed challenges in delineating a clear clinical profile of patients with aspiration pneumonia. The overlap of aspiration events and the typical clinical presentation further complicates distinguishing aspiration pneumonia from aspiration pneumonitis. Broadly, patients with aspiration pneumonia typically exhibit characteristics such as older age, frailty, malnutrition, and bedridden status, often accompanied by multiple comorbidities, especially cerebrovascular disease. [5] Patients with aspiration pneumonia commonly exhibit clinical symptoms associated with CAP, including cough, fever, and malaise, which can 

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Aspiration Pneumonia and Pneumonitis p.12
  cause readmission rates. Aspiration pneumonia is identified as an independent risk factor for these outcomes, although the lack of robust data prevents specific predictions relating to aspiration pneumonia. [9] Older adults aged over 80 with pneumonia and those with aspiration pneumonia exhibited higher mortality rates, elevated sodium levels, and poorer renal function compared to age-matched controls with pneumonia but without evidence of aspiration. [6] In the US, aspiration pneumonia caused an average of 58,576 deaths per year between 1999 and 2017, with individuals aged 75 or older accounting for 76% of deaths attributable to aspiration pneumonia. [10] Among hospitalized patients with aspiration pneumonia, the mortality rate is approximately 10% to 15%, with the highest risk of poor outcomes observed in patients with older age. Notably, patients with head and neck cancer have a morta

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Aspiration Pneumonia and Pneumonitis p.3
  Section: Inflammatory myopathies. thies Bulbospinal muscular atrophy Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy Inflammatory myopathies Bulbospinal muscular atrophy Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy Advanced age correlates strongly with aspiration pneumonia, as many older adults experience silent microaspirations that may not be clinically apparent. [1] Among patients aged 70 or older hospitalized with pneumonia, dysphagia prevalence was reported at 91.7%, with silent aspirations occurring in over 50% of cases. However, advanced age does not directly predict the risk of aspiration pneumonia. Frailty, poor nutritional status, and limited mobility are considered more reliable indicators of aspiration risk in older patients. [3] According to various estimates, the prevalence of aspiration pneumonia in specific patient populations is as follows: Acute stroke patients: between 3% and 50% [1] Post-ce


=== [19] TOPIC: Aspirin/NSAID hypersensitivity | domain: Internal medicine: rheumatology, immunology & allergy (gout & crystal arthropathy, SLE, RA, vasculitides, anaphylaxis & angioedema, drug reactions) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] MGH Housestaff Manual p.192
  Section: Allergy & Immunology. Allergy & Immunology Drug & Contrast Allergy Danielle Crabtree D I A G N O S I S (Drug Allergy Practice Parameter 2010) Labs (sometimes helpful): CBC w/ diff (eos), LFTs, Cr, tryptase (if anaphylaxis), auto-Abs (e.g., anti-histone in drug induced lupus) Skin testing: evaluates for drug-specific IgE antibodies for a limited # of meds. NPV of penicillin skin testing = 95%. Deliberate rechallenge = graded challenge = test dose procedure Used when there is a low suspicion for true allergic reaction to a medication. Does NOT assess cross-reactivity of structurally-related drugs. Contraindication = severe non-IgE mediated HSR (ex: DRESS, SJS, etc.) How to order: Antibiotic Test Dose in Epic order sets (can also type “penicillin” “allergy” “test dose”) Automatically orders the rescue medications, nursing communication orders, and fills in doses of desired med (FYI

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.1752
  The World Health Organization recommends a progressive, three-step approach: (1) nonopioid analgesics such as aspirin, acetaminophen, or an NSAID for mild pain, (2) “weak” oral opioids

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.460
  Section: Drug Interactions. Drug Interactions Aspirin decreases the protein binding of ketorolac, increasing the amount of active unbound drug. Ketorolac does not affect the minimum alveolar concentration of inhalation anesthetic agents, and its administration does not alter the hemodynamics of anesthetized patients. It decreases the postoperative requirement for opioid analgesics. Other NSAID Adjuvant Drugs Other NSAID agents are used perioperatively. Ketorolac and other NSAIDs inhibit cyclooxygenase (COX) isoenzymes. COX-1 maintains gastric mucosa and stimulates platelet aggregation. COX-2 is expressed during inflammation. Diclofenac and ibuprofen are now available for intravenous administration. Whereas ketorolac, diclofenac, and ibuprofen are nonselective COX inhibitors, other agents such as celecoxib are specific for COX-2. COX-2 inhibitors spare both the gastric mucosa and platelet

  [3] Morgan & Mikhail p.459
  Section: Mechanism of Action. Mechanism of Action Ketorolac is a parenteral nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that provides analgesia by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis. A peripherally acting drug, it has become a popular alternative to opioids for postoperative analgesia because of its minimal central nervous system side effects. Clinical Uses Ketorolac is indicated for the short-term (<5 days) management of pain and appears to be particularly useful in the immediate postoperative period. A standard dose of ketorolac provides analgesia equivalent to 6 to 12 mg of morphine administered by the same route. Its time to onset is also similar to morphine, but ketorolac has a longer duration of action (6–8 h). Ketorolac does not cause respiratory depression, sedation, nausea, or vomiting. In fact, ketorolac does not cross the blood–brain barrier to any significant degree. Numerous

  [4] Morgan & Mikhail p.1752
  Section: ABDOMINAL PAIN. located in the V2 or V3 distribution of the trigeminal nerve. It has an electric shock quality, with episodes lasting from seconds to minutes, and is often provoked by contact with a discrete trigger. Facial muscle spasm may be present. Middle-aged and older adults are affected, with a 2:1 female-to-male ratio. Common causes of trigeminal neuralgia include compression of the nerve by the superior cerebellar artery as it exits the brainstem, multiple sclerosis, and cerebellopontine angle tumor. The drug of choice for treatment is carbamazepine, though it carries a risk of agranulocytosis. Phenytoin or baclofen may be added, particularly if patients do not tolerate sufficient doses of carbamazepine. More invasive treatments for patients who do not respond to drug therapy include glycerol injection, radiofrequency ablation, balloon compression of the Gasserian gangl

  [5] Morgan & Mikhail p.2036
  Section: Anesth. 2013 Jun;25(4):335-343.). FIGURE 54–8 Treatment of acute attacks of angioedema based on underlying etiology. ACE-I, angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitor; ARB, angiotensin receptor blocker; C1INHRP, C1 inhibitor replacement protein; FFP, fresh frozen plasma; IV, intravenous; NSAID, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug. (Reproduced with permission from Barbara D, Ronan K, Maddox D, et al. Perioperative angioedema; background, diagnosis and management. J Clin Anesth. 2013 Jun;25(4):335-343.) 2. Anaphylactic Reactions Anaphylaxis is an exaggerated response to an allergen (eg, antibiotic) that is mediated by a type I hypersensitivity reaction. The syndrome appears within minutes of exposure to a specific antigen in a sensitized person and characteristically presents as acute respiratory distress, circulatory shock, or both. Death may occur from asphyxiation or irreversible

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Angioedema  classification & management p.4
  Section: Furthermore, the following factors can contribute to asthma and airway hyperreactivity:. of 3. [16] The Copenhagen Prospective Studies on Asthma in Childhood (COPSAC2010) reveals that 17% of children born to mothers with diets high in omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids developed persistent wheeze or asthma during the first 3 years of life compared to nearly 24% in the group with diets high in omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids. Vitamins E and C and zinc may also have protective effects. Administering vitamin C at a dose of 500 mg/d to pregnant mothers appears to offer protection against the harmful effects of tobacco exposure. Offspring of mothers who receive vitamin C supplementation exhibit a wheezing incidence of 28%, while those without vitamin C supplementation have a higher incidence of 47%. [18] [19] Wheezing caused by viral infections, particularly respiratory syncytia

  [7] Miller/Baby Miller p.544
  Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS heartburn (burning retrosternal sensation) and regurgita- tion (perception of flow of refluxed gastric contents into the hypopharynx or mouth). The prevalence of heartburn and/or regurgitation symptoms is between 10% and 30% worldwide.20 Other nonspecific manifestations of GERD include dysphagia, globus sensation, chest pain, laryn- gitis, hoarseness, cough, dental erosions, adult-onset asthma, and aspiration. Several mechanisms contribute to the development of GERD, including the imbalance of symptom-eliciting factors and defensive factors. Symptom-eliciting factors include reflux events, acidity of refluxed contents, and esophageal hypersensitivity. Defensive factors include esophageal acid clearance and mucosal integrity.21 Symp- tom severity is reflective of this imbalance in combina- 


=== [20] TOPIC: Bacterial Meningitis: Diagnosis & Emergency Management | domain: Internal medicine: infectious disease (sepsis & septic shock, pneumonia, UTI/pyelonephritis, cellulitis & necrotizing infections, endocarditis, meningitis, C. diff, HIV, antimicrobial selection & stewardship) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] StatPearls p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK470351 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK470351/ Topic: Bacterial Meningitis: Diagnosis & Emergency Management Article Title: Bacterial Meningitis License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Tyler J. Runde ; Fatima Anjum ; John W. Hafner . Authors Tyler J. Runde 1 ; Fatima Anjum 2 ; John W. Hafner 3 . Last Update: August 8, 2023 . Continuing Education Activity Bacterial meningitis is an infection of the meninges that results in inflammation. It is a serious and life-threatening condition that requires prompt diagnosis and treatment. This activity reviews the evaluation and treatment of bacterial meningitis and highlights the role of

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.1483
  Section: Anesthetic Considerations. obstruction or esophageal impaction, and increased battery current and voltage secondary to the change in lithium battery composition, leading to rapid and severe tissue burns. Aspiration or swallowing of a button battery is an emergency requiring immediate removal of the battery. Acute epiglottitis is a bacterial infection (most commonly Haemophilus influenzae type B) classically affecting 2to 6-year-old children but also occasionally appearing in older children and adults. It rapidly progresses from a sore throat to dysphagia and complete airway obstruction. The term supraglottitis has been suggested because the inflammation typically involves all supraglottic structures. Endotracheal intubation and antibiotic therapy can be lifesaving. Epiglottitis has increasingly become a disease of adults because of the widespread use of H. influenzae vaccines in

  [2] StatPearls p.4
  Section: Treatment / Management. ocompromised. Consider delaying the lumbar puncture if the patient has unstable vital signs, coagulation abnormalities, or has had a recent seizure. Treat with antibiotics empirically if testing is going to be delayed. Blood cultures should be obtained as 53% of patients have concurrent bacteremia. Elevated C-reactive protein or procalcitonin levels would suggest a bacterial rather than viral etiology. [10] [11] [12] Treatment / Management Timely administration of antibiotics is essential. Delays in the administration of 3 to 6 hours are associated with increased mortality. The identified bacteria determine antibiotic selection. Empiric treatment with ceftriaxone and vancomycin should strongly be considered if the diagnosis is going to be delayed. Patients who are immunocompromised or older than 50 should also receive ampicillin. Patients with bacterial m

  [3] MGH Housestaff Manual p.123
  Section: Infectious Disease. Infectious Disease Meningitis & Encephalitis Justine Enns B A C T E R I A L M E N I N G I T I S Clinical Features History: 95% have ≥2 of: fever, neck stiffness, AMS, HA (NEJM 2004;351:1849). Lethargy, hypothermia may be common in elderly. Abd pain, peritonitis can be seen w/ VP shunts. Can also cause seizures, stroke (infectious vasculitis), hydrocephalus, CN deficits (esp TB and fungal) (Continuum 2021;27:836). Exam: most findings more Sp than Sn. Nuchal rigidity 30% Sn, 68% Sp. Kernig’s 5% Sn, 95% Sp. Brudzinski’s 5% Sn, 95% Sp (CID 2002;35:46). Jolt sign (worsening HA with horizontal rotation of the head) 64% Sn, 43% Sp (Am J EM 2013;31:1601). May be absent if >65 yo, immunocompromised, taking analgesics (Continuum 2021;27:836-854). Meningococcemia with petechial rash, palpable purpura Diagnosis (CID 2004;39:1267) Blood cultures STAT – BEFORE antibiotics 

  [4] Miller/Baby Miller p.655
  Section: Chapter 34 Pediatrics. Chapter 34 Pediatrics in the vessels of the retina, accompanied by wide swings in oxygen tension such as those seen in cardiopulmonary instability with ventilated premature infants with respira- tory distress syndrome, PDA, sepsis, apnea/bradycardia, and other problems associated with prematurity. Thus Spo2 is maintained at 88% to 93% in many premature infants, with resulting oxygen tensions of 50 to 70 mm Hg targeted. Excessive oxygen tensions, as may be seen with general endotracheal anesthesia, are to be avoided, even if short-lived. The challenge for the anesthesia pro- vider caring for such infants is to manage oxygenation with these restrictions in mind. Premature infants hospitalized in the NICU receive regular retinal examinations, and if high-risk type I or greater ROP is diagnosed, urgent surgical therapy is undertaken within 24 to 72 hours to ma

  [5] MGH Housestaff Manual p.226
  Section: Primary Care. Primary Care HEENT Concerns Sahar Shahamatdar C H R O N I C C O U G H (AFP 2017;96:575; NEJM 2016;375:1544) Time course: acute (≤3w) vs. subacute (3-8w) vs. chronic (>8w) Common causes: upper airway cough syndrome (UACS), asthma, GERD; these three account for 90% (18-62% pts have combo) General approach: 1) History (smoking, URI, ACEi use, GERD sx); remove possible offending agent 2) Consider CXR if cough >8 weeks, especially if suspicion for UACS/asthma/GERD 3) Start empiric tx for UACS/asthma/GERD sequentially until resolution  tx should be added to initial regimen 4) Consider PFTs, esophageal pH monitoring, chest CT, sputum tests, cardiac studies if sx persist despite treatment of usual causes Other causes: post-infxn (self-limited; can last 3+ months, treat sx), COPD, OSA, non-asthmatic eosinophilic bronchitis, chemical irritant (e.g., cigarette smoke), laryn

  [6] Society Guideline p.68
  Section: 257. Williams P, Beall G, Cotta MO, et al: Antimicrobial dosing in crit-. e1130 measurement of unbound drug concentrations to achieve appropriate drug exposures. J Antimicrob Chemother 2018; 73:3087–3094 257. Williams P, Beall G, Cotta MO, et al: Antimicrobial dosing in crit- ical care: A pragmatic adult dosing nomogram. Int J Antimicrob Agents 2020; 55:105837 258. Williams P, Cotta MO, Roberts JA: Pharmacokinetics/phar- macodynamics of β-lactams and therapeutic drug monitor- ing: From theory to practical issues in the intensive care unit. Semin Respir Crit Care Med 2019; 40:476–487 259. Nation RL, Garonzik SM, Thamlikitkul V, et al: Dosing guid- ance for intravenous colistin in critically-ill patients. Clin Infect Dis 2017; 64:565–571 260. Roberts JA, Taccone FS, Udy AA, et al: Vancomycin dosing in critically ill patients: Robust methods for improved con- tinuous-infusion regim

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Viral Meningitis & Encephalitis p.4
  Section: Differential Diagnosis. irment of HSV encephalitis. Therefore, empirically, it is recommended that physicians start all patients with suspected encephalitis on acyclovir. The recommended dose is 10 mg/kg intravenously (IV) every 8 hours for 14 to 21 days. Although not as effective as it is with HSV, nucleoside analogs are used for other herpesviruses as well. Acyclovir 10 to 15 mg/kg IV every 8 hours for 10 to 14 days, with possible adjunctive corticosteroids in immunocompetent patients, is recommended for varicella-zoster virus. The recommended treatment for CMV encephalitis is a combination of ganciclovir 5 mg/kg IV every 12 hours and foscarnet 60 mg/kg IV every 8 hours or 90 mg/kg IV every 12 hours for 21 days. Another important component of the management of patients with viral encephalitis is serial intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring. Elevated ICP is associated with poo


=== [21] TOPIC: Bacterial Meningitis: Pathogen-Specific Treatment | domain: Internal medicine: infectious disease (sepsis & septic shock, pneumonia, UTI/pyelonephritis, cellulitis & necrotizing infections, endocarditis, meningitis, C. diff, HIV, antimicrobial selection & stewardship) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.1037
  Section: Anesthetic Considerations for Patients with. arrhythmias due to conduction defects. Therapy includes treatment of the underlying neoplasm, if present; plasma exchange; and administration of immunoglobulin, corticosteroids, and immunomodulators such as metho​trexate, cyclosporine, and tumor necrosis factor-α inhibitors. Anesthetic Considerations for Patients with Neuromuscular Paraneoplastic Syndromes Patients with LEMS and other neuromuscular paraneoplastic syndromes are very sensitive to both depolarizing and nondepolarizing NMBs. Volatile agents alone are often sufficient to provide muscle relaxation for both intubation and most surgical procedures. NMBs should be given only in small increments and with careful neuromuscular monitoring. Because these patients frequently exhibit marked debility, benzodiazepines, opioids, and other medications with sedative effects should be adm

  [1] StatPearls p.1
  Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK470351 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK470351/ Topic: Bacterial Meningitis: Pathogen-Specific Treatment Article Title: Bacterial Meningitis License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf

  [2] StatPearls p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK470351 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK470351/ Topic: Bacterial Meningitis: Diagnosis & Emergency Management Article Title: Bacterial Meningitis License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Tyler J. Runde ; Fatima Anjum ; John W. Hafner . Authors Tyler J. Runde 1 ; Fatima Anjum 2 ; John W. Hafner 3 . Last Update: August 8, 2023 . Continuing Education Activity Bacterial meningitis is an infection of the meninges that results in inflammation. It is a serious and life-threatening condition that requires prompt diagnosis and treatment. This activity reviews the evaluation and treatment of bacterial meningitis and highlights the role of

  [3] MGH Housestaff Manual p.123
  Section: Infectious Disease. Infectious Disease Meningitis & Encephalitis Justine Enns B A C T E R I A L M E N I N G I T I S Clinical Features History: 95% have ≥2 of: fever, neck stiffness, AMS, HA (NEJM 2004;351:1849). Lethargy, hypothermia may be common in elderly. Abd pain, peritonitis can be seen w/ VP shunts. Can also cause seizures, stroke (infectious vasculitis), hydrocephalus, CN deficits (esp TB and fungal) (Continuum 2021;27:836). Exam: most findings more Sp than Sn. Nuchal rigidity 30% Sn, 68% Sp. Kernig’s 5% Sn, 95% Sp. Brudzinski’s 5% Sn, 95% Sp (CID 2002;35:46). Jolt sign (worsening HA with horizontal rotation of the head) 64% Sn, 43% Sp (Am J EM 2013;31:1601). May be absent if >65 yo, immunocompromised, taking analgesics (Continuum 2021;27:836-854). Meningococcemia with petechial rash, palpable purpura Diagnosis (CID 2004;39:1267) Blood cultures STAT – BEFORE antibiotics 

  [4] MGH Housestaff Manual p.263
  Section: Fluid Analysis. Fluid Analysis Maggie Selesky L U M B A R P U N C T U R E I N T E R P R E T A T I O N (cm H2O) Predominant cell Protein (mg/dL) Further CSF Testing 9–18 0–5 50–75 15–40 Bacterial meningitis 20–50 <100 to >10k >80% PMN <40 100–1000 Cx, Gram stain Viral meningitis (Enteroviruses, HSV, VZV, arboviruses) 9–20 50–1000 Lymph; early echovirus/HSV can have 80% PMN >45; low in LCM and mumps <200 HSV/VZV PCR, consider further viral PCR or Ab if clinical suspicion; d/w ID Lyme meningitis 9–20 10–300 Ab testing paired with serum TB meningitis 18–30 50-300 <50 50-300 >2000 if subarach block MTb Cx <60% Sn, NAAT not approved by FDA, discuss w/ ID Fungal meningitis 18–30 < 300 <50 40–300 Fungal wet prep + Cx, d/w ID Cryptococcal meningitis 18–30+ 5–500 <40 >45 Fungal wet prep + Cx, CrAg; d/w ID need for India ink stain Epidural/Brain abscess 18–30 10–300 Gram stain not sensitiv

  [5] MGH Housestaff Manual p.195
  Section: Allergy & Immunology. Allergy & Immunology Primary Immunodeficiency Natalia Sutherland P R I M A R Y I M M U N O D E F I C I E N C Y D I S O R D E R S (JACI 2016 1109-1110,) Definition: inherited deficits of immune system → increased incidence/severity/frequency of infections Prevalence: 1/1200-2000 pts Warning signs in adults: ≥4 infection requiring antibiotics/year (ear infxn, sinusitis, bronchitis, PNA, otitis media), infection not responsive to antibiotics, ≥2 severe infections (osteo, septic arthritis, meningitis, sepsis), ≥2 PNA within 3 years, chronic diarrhea, recurrent deep abscesses, persistent fungal infection, persistent thrush, infection w/ benign mycobacteria, relevant FH H&P: developmental hx, FH, age at onset, frequency & type of infections, syndromic features, autoimmune dz, Most severe forms are on MA newborn screen; mild forms go undetected into adulthood (e.g

  [6] MGH Housestaff Manual p.226
  Section: Primary Care. Primary Care HEENT Concerns Sahar Shahamatdar C H R O N I C C O U G H (AFP 2017;96:575; NEJM 2016;375:1544) Time course: acute (≤3w) vs. subacute (3-8w) vs. chronic (>8w) Common causes: upper airway cough syndrome (UACS), asthma, GERD; these three account for 90% (18-62% pts have combo) General approach: 1) History (smoking, URI, ACEi use, GERD sx); remove possible offending agent 2) Consider CXR if cough >8 weeks, especially if suspicion for UACS/asthma/GERD 3) Start empiric tx for UACS/asthma/GERD sequentially until resolution  tx should be added to initial regimen 4) Consider PFTs, esophageal pH monitoring, chest CT, sputum tests, cardiac studies if sx persist despite treatment of usual causes Other causes: post-infxn (self-limited; can last 3+ months, treat sx), COPD, OSA, non-asthmatic eosinophilic bronchitis, chemical irritant (e.g., cigarette smoke), laryn

  [7] StatPearls p.4
  Section: Treatment / Management. ocompromised. Consider delaying the lumbar puncture if the patient has unstable vital signs, coagulation abnormalities, or has had a recent seizure. Treat with antibiotics empirically if testing is going to be delayed. Blood cultures should be obtained as 53% of patients have concurrent bacteremia. Elevated C-reactive protein or procalcitonin levels would suggest a bacterial rather than viral etiology. [10] [11] [12] Treatment / Management Timely administration of antibiotics is essential. Delays in the administration of 3 to 6 hours are associated with increased mortality. The identified bacteria determine antibiotic selection. Empiric treatment with ceftriaxone and vancomycin should strongly be considered if the diagnosis is going to be delayed. Patients who are immunocompromised or older than 50 should also receive ampicillin. Patients with bacterial m


=== [22] TOPIC: Basic apatite (hydroxyapatite) deposition disease | domain: Internal medicine: rheumatology, immunology & allergy (gout & crystal arthropathy, SLE, RA, vasculitides, anaphylaxis & angioedema, drug reactions) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] StatPearls p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK576375 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK576375/ Topic: Basic apatite (hydroxyapatite) deposition disease Article Title: Basic Concepts of Echocardiography Hemodynamics License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Basic Concepts of Echocardiography Hemodynamics Atheer Hussain-Amin ; Akarsh Parekh ; Jay Mohan . Authors Atheer Hussain-Amin 1 ; Akarsh Parekh 2 ; Jay Mohan 3 . Last Update: October 24, 2022 . Continuing Education Activity Echocardiographic hemodynamic parameter determination is a crucial step in valvular disease diagnosis and severity determination. Echocardiography can further be utilized to determine the various hemodyn

  [1] StatPearls: StatPearls   Gout  acute management p.23
  Table reference [157] Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis for an acute gout flare includes the following: Calcium pyrophosphate crystal deposition disease Basic calcium phosphate crystal disease Septic arthritis (crystal arthritis and septic arthritis may coexist) [88]

  [2] StatPearls: StatPearls   Gout  acute management p.23
  Section: Table reference [157]. rs have been shown to reduce the risk of incident gout and acute gouty arthritis flares. [159] [160] Table 7. Urate-Lowering Drugs and Mechanisms . Table reference [157] Table 9. Urate-Increasing Drugs and Mechanisms . Table reference [157] Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis for an acute gout flare includes the following: Calcium pyrophosphate crystal deposition disease Basic calcium phosphate crystal disease Septic arthritis (crystal arthritis and septic arthritis may coexist) [88] The differential diagnosis for tophaceous gout includes: Rheumatoid arthritis (primarily when associated with rheumatoid nodules) The prognosis of gout varies based on the individual comorbidities. Many patients with gout die prematurely, even if their flares are well-controlled by diet and medication. OSA is causally linked to hyperuricemia but is not an indepen

  [3] StatPearls p.5
  fficient criterion, such as clinical and radiographic evidence of crowned dens syndrome or the presence of CPP crystals in a patient with inflammatory arthritis If these criteria are not met, CPPD can be defined based on a cumulative point system, with a total score greater than 56 indicating the diagnosis (see Table. CPPD Cumulative Point-Based Criteria). Basic bloodwork should include a basic metabolic panel (including calcium, magnesium, and phosphate), parathyroid hormone level, iron studies, thyroid-stimulating hormone level, and uric acid level. [1] Crystal identification in synovial fluid aspirates by compensated polarized light microscopy remains the gold standard for diagnosing CPP arthritis. [21] Given the invasive nature of synovial fluid analysis, the role of imaging continues to evolve in clinical practice. Commonly used imaging modalities for diagnosing CPPD include plain x

  [4] MGH Housestaff Manual p.99
  Section: Acute Kidney Injury. Acute Kidney Injury Roger Zou D E F I N I N G AKI (KDIGO 2012 Guidelines) Diagnostic Tips Serum Cr approximates GFR at steady state only (unable to estimate GFR w/ ∆Cr): must assume GFR <10 if ∆Cr > 1 mg/dL/day Drugs can impair Cr excretion without ∆GFR (BUN remains stable): trimethoprim (in Bactrim), H2 blockers (cimetidine), dronaderone BUN out of proportion to Cr: pre/post-renal, UGIB, steroids. Cr out of proportion to BUN: rhabdo, AIN, TMP-SMX, vanc,  nutrition S T E P W I S E W O R K U P 1) History/exam: vitals (HTN/HoTN), volume status, exposures (contrast, meds), recent infection (IgA nephropathy 1-2d, post-strep GN in 10-14d), active infection (sepsis can induce ATN independent of BP or RBF (JASN 2011;22:999)), trauma/myalgias/found down (rhabdomyolysis), rashes (AIN, vasculitis) 2) Urinalysis (UA): see Urinalysis. If AKI and UA demonstrate unexp

  [5] MGH Housestaff Manual p.182
  Section: Outpatient Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus. Outpatient Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Adriana Saavedra-Simmons A L G O R I T H M F O R O R A L A N T I-D I A B E T I C T H E R A P Y (Diab Care 2021;44:S111) (PCOI) N O N-I N S U L I N A G E N T S (D U A L C O M B I N A T I O N T H E R A P Y W H E N A 1 C >1 .5 % A B O V E G O A L) Drug/Dose Range Side Effects/Considerations Metformin: 1st line anti-diabetic medication; many effects, primary mechanism is decreasing hepatic glucose production Metformin (Glucophage) 500-1000mg BID First line therapy Minimal weight loss Improvement in lipids GFR cutoffs: <45mL/min don’t initiate <30mL/min discontinue Metabolic acidosis Nausea, bloating, diarrhea B12 deficiency Lactic acidosis in severe liver/renal disease or hypoperfusion state Metformin pearls: discuss GI sx (decrease over time). Minimize by advising slow titration (250-500mg/wk), taking WITH foo

  [6] Miller/Baby Miller p.69
  Section: Chapter 4 Basic Pharmacologic Principles. Chapter 4 Basic Pharmacologic Principles to determine the correct dose. Such factors include age; body habitus; gender; chronic exposure to opioids, ben- zodiazepines, or alcohol; presence of heart, lung, kidney, or liver disease; and the extent of blood loss or dehydra- tion. Each of them can dramatically affect anesthetic drug kinetics and dynamics. How some patient characteristics (e.g., obesity) influence anesthetic drug behavior has been studied, whereas other patient characteristics remain dif- ficult to assess (e.g., chronic opioid exposure). The findings are briefly summarized to characterize the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in a few unique special populations. Influence of Obesity on Anesthetic Drugs Obesity is a worldwide epidemic, and overweight patients frequently undergo anesthesia and surgery. Therefore anesthesia 

  [7] MGH Housestaff Manual p.101
  Section: Glomerular Disease. Glomerular Disease Sahar Shahamatdar N E P H R O T I C S Y N D R O M E (NS) Etiology: podocyte integrity or presence -> glomerular proteinuria (predominantly albumin) Presentation: Constitutional sx (fatigue, anorexia), HLD + premature atherosclerosis, foamy urine, hypercoagulability (10-40% VTE risk 2/2 loss of antithrombin & plasminogen), Vit D deficiency (loss of binding protein), infectious risk (IgG/opsonins), protein malnutrition Diagnosis: spot urine PCR> 3000mg/g confirmed by 24h UPr >3.5 g/d AND albumin <3.5 (distinguishes from nephrotic range proteinuria). Note that low and high muscle mass will over and underestimate proteinuria on spot ratios, respectively. Work up: UA, Hgb a1c, ANA, anti-dsDNA, anti-PLA2R, THSD7A, SPEP/SFLC, HBV, HCV, HIV, syphilis, cryoglobulins, C3/C4, renal bx Treatment: Edema: diuretics + low Na diet; HLD: statin; VTE risk:


=== [23] TOPIC: Beta-Blocker & Calcium Channel Blocker Toxicity | domain: Internal medicine: emergency & acute care (cardiopulmonary resuscitation, trauma primary survey, toxicology & overdoses, environmental emergencies, anaphylaxis, acute abdomen) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] StatPearls: StatPearls   Beta Blocker & Calcium Channel Blocker Toxicity p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK537147 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK537147/ Topic: Beta-Blocker & Calcium Channel Blocker Toxicity Article Title: Calcium Channel Blocker Toxicity License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Calcium Channel Blocker Toxicity Rebanta K. Chakraborty ; Richard J. Hamilton . Authors Rebanta K. Chakraborty 1 ; Richard J. Hamilton 2 . Last Update: July 28, 2023 . Continuing Education Activity Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) are among the most commonly used cardiovascular drugs in the adult population. Like most other medications, when calcium channel blockers are taken beyond the appropriate recommended dosage, they can have untoward 

  [1] StatPearls: StatPearls   Digoxin Toxicity p.8
  Section: Differential Diagnosis. should be corrected. Hyperkalemia can often be seen with digoxin toxicity, with standard potassium-lowering therapy, including intravenous calcium administration. Calcium use with digoxin toxicity is contraindicated due to the theoretical concern for a condition known as "stone heart." This is due to the belief that calcium will potentiate the positive inotropic effect of digoxin, leading to an irreversible noncontractile state of the heart where the heart cannot relax during diastole. [21] Multiple studies have not shown this to be a concern in clinical practice, although a true randomized controlled trial cannot be performed due to ethical considerations. [22] Theoretical concern has arisen regarding whether, if digoxin is neutralized with antibodies, the patient may develop an exacerbation of their heart failure, leading to worsening of the arrhythmias

  [2] StatPearls: StatPearls   Beta Blocker & Calcium Channel Blocker Toxicity p.7
  [36] However, an initial presentation with bradycardia and hypotension should prompt consideration of a wide array of pharmacological agents, including: Beta-blocker toxicity Tricyclic antidepressant toxicity Sedative-hypnotic toxicity Organophosphate poisoning Prognosis beyond the initial toxicity depends upon

  [3] StatPearls: StatPearls   Digoxin Toxicity p.8
  Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnoses that should also be considered when evaluating cardiac glycoside and digoxin toxicity include: Beta-blocker toxicity Calcium channel blocker toxicity Cardiac glycoside plant poisoning Sinus node dysfunction Third-degree atrioventricular heart block (complete heart

  [4] StatPearls: StatPearls   Beta Blocker & Calcium Channel Blocker Toxicity p.7
  Section: Differential Diagnosis. ation (VA–ECMO) for the patient with refractory shock. [34] [35] Once stabilized, arrangements for appropriate psychiatric evaluation and behavioral health consultation may be appropriate. Differential Diagnosis Because of their similarity of end-organ affinity, pharmacological action, and target patients, beta-blockers are the most common confounders. Compared to CCBs, beta-blockers are less likely to cause hyperglycemia in adult patients. [36] However, an initial presentation with bradycardia and hypotension should prompt consideration of a wide array of pharmacological agents, including: Beta-blocker toxicity Tricyclic antidepressant toxicity Sedative-hypnotic toxicity Organophosphate poisoning Prognosis beyond the initial toxicity depends upon the magnitude of ingestion, the severity of toxidrome, and the extent of organ dysfunction. Poor prognostic f

  [5] StatPearls: StatPearls   Beta Blocker & Calcium Channel Blocker Toxicity p.4
  Section: Gastrointestinal Detoxification. e volume variability may be worthwhile. Finally, seek early consultation with a medical toxicologist or poison control center. Cardiology consultation is also prudent considering the likelihood of a transvenous pacemaker or intra-aortic balloon pump in severe overdose. Conventional decontamination measures like urinary alkalinization, hemodialysis, or hemofiltration are ineffective in CCB toxicity because of their large volume of distribution and lipophilic nature. Whole bowel irrigation is the mainstay of elimination in extended-release preparations. Gastrointestinal Detoxification Controversy exists regarding the utility of GI decontamination in early intervention patients. It should not take precedence over resuscitation and avoid it in unstable patients. [5] Administer activated charcoal in a dose of 1 gm/kg within 1 to 2 hours for maximum be

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Beta Blocker & Calcium Channel Blocker Toxicity p.5
  Section: Lipid Emulsion Therapy. eve the same calcium dose. There have been cases of multiorgan failure with acute tubular necrosis, hepatic necrosis, splenic infarcts, and skin involvement from calciphylaxis related to over-aggressive use of calcium in the setting of CCB overdose. Most practitioners will administer calcium as an initial measure, but if toxicity reoccurs or worsens will switch to other interventions. Hyperinsulinemic euglycemia (HIE) has emerged as a potent therapy for severe calcium channel blocker toxicity. Experimental models show that CCB toxicity shifts myocardial substrate preference to carbohydrates from free fatty acids; thus, cardiac substrate delivery is impaired. CCBs also reduce insulin secretion, creates tissue insulin resistance, and interfere with glucose catabolism leading to lactic academia and metabolic acidosis. Insulin administered in such a setting h

  [7] MGH Housestaff Manual p.43
  Section: Outpatient CV Health. Outpatient CV Health Amanda Jowell Common Medications %  in LDL-C Effect on CV Adverse effects reductase inhibitors 1st-line therapy for 1° & 2°prevention 20-60% LDL-C reduction 1° & 2°prevention, CV events (ARR 1.1%, NNT 91, HOPE-3) Myopathy (prevalent in RCTs vs “practice”), LFTs, memory loss & confusion (10mg qd) intestinal cholesterol absorption - Statin-intolerant - LDL-C >70 w/ CVD or <50% LDL-C w/o CVD on max-tolerated statin Ezetimibe + statin therapy  LDL-C by ~23% Ezetimibe + statin CV events (ARR 2%, NNT 50, IMPROVE-IT) Mild LFTs (usually w/ inhibitors (alirocumab, evolocumab) degradation of LDL-R on hepatocyte surface High risk pts w/ CVD & LDL-C >70 on statin + ezetimibe; approved for use in familial hypercholesterolemia 38-72% reduction; ~60% in pts on statin therapy Evolocumab + statin CV events (ARR 1.5%, NNT 67 at 48w, FOURIER); 


=== [24] TOPIC: Beta-lactam allergy evaluation & penicillin skin testing | domain: Internal medicine: rheumatology, immunology & allergy (gout & crystal arthropathy, SLE, RA, vasculitides, anaphylaxis & angioedema, drug reactions) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] MGH Housestaff Manual p.192
  Section: Allergy & Immunology. Allergy & Immunology Drug & Contrast Allergy Danielle Crabtree D I A G N O S I S (Drug Allergy Practice Parameter 2010) Labs (sometimes helpful): CBC w/ diff (eos), LFTs, Cr, tryptase (if anaphylaxis), auto-Abs (e.g., anti-histone in drug induced lupus) Skin testing: evaluates for drug-specific IgE antibodies for a limited # of meds. NPV of penicillin skin testing = 95%. Deliberate rechallenge = graded challenge = test dose procedure Used when there is a low suspicion for true allergic reaction to a medication. Does NOT assess cross-reactivity of structurally-related drugs. Contraindication = severe non-IgE mediated HSR (ex: DRESS, SJS, etc.) How to order: Antibiotic Test Dose in Epic order sets (can also type “penicillin” “allergy” “test dose”) Automatically orders the rescue medications, nursing communication orders, and fills in doses of desired med (FYI

  [1] Stanford CA-1 p.92
  Section: Selected 2017 SHC Dosing and Re-dosing Guidelines. Selected 2017 SHC Dosing and Re-dosing Guidelines Recommended Dose Re-dosing (hrs) <120kg2g >120kg3g Peds: 30mg/kg, max 2g Can bolus over 3 minutes** Give over 30 minutes <80kg – 1g 80-99kg1.25g 100-120kg1.5g >120kg2g Adult and Peds 15mg/kg Give over 30-60 minutes, or <10mg/min; whichever is longer) Can be given 60-120min prior to incision (long half life) Give over 15-30 minutes Give over 60 minutes Contraindicated in pregnancy Give over 30 minutes 5 mg/kg (single dose) If CrCl<20, 2mg/kg (single dose or consult Rx) Dilute to <1mg/cc Give over 30-120 minutes (risk of ototo/nephrotoxicity with bolus) Give over 20-60 minutes *As a general rule, for drugs with a greater therapeutic index, you can administer them faster Allergies and Interactions Penicillins and 1st & 2nd generation cephalosporins have similar side change with some

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.432
  Section: Society of Regional Anesthesia and Pain Medicine (ASRA) guideline on LAST being. optical isomer of bupivacaine blocks more avidly and dissociates more slowly from cardiac Na channels than does the S(–) optical isomer (levobupivacaine or ropivacaine). Resuscitation from bupivacaine-induced cardiac toxicity is often difficult and resistant to standard resuscitation drugs. Multiple clinical reports suggest that bolus administration of nutritional lipid emulsions at 1.5 mL/kg can resuscitate bupivacaine- intoxicated patients who do not respond to standard therapy. We advocate that lipid be a first-line treatment for cardiovascular LAST. We are concerned that case reports indicate persisting delayed use of this nearly risk-free treatment despite an American Society of Regional Anesthesia and Pain Medicine (ASRA) guideline on LAST being available in print, online, and in a mobile app.

  [3] Morgan & Mikhail p.432
  As a consequence, generations of anesthesiologists have speculated whether this preservative may be responsible for most of the apparent allergic responses to amide agents, particularly when skin testing fails to confirm true allergy to the local

  [4] Miller/Baby Miller p.241
  Section: Chapter 13 Preoperative Evaluation. Chapter 13 Preoperative Evaluation better tolerance of a stressful event. Prehabilitation pro- grams typically focus on several goals: (1) improved physical fitness, (2) dietary interventions to counteract the catabolic state and support anabolism with exercise, (3) antistress interventions to foster resilience and self- efficacy, and (4) cessation of adverse health habits (e.g., alcohol use disorder, smoking).59 Several examples are described in Chapter 42 Inpatient Preoperative Evaluation Although much of this chapter has focused on outpa- tient preoperative evaluation, the principles apply to the inpatient who requires urgent or emergency surgery. However, the time course of evaluation may need to be significantly compressed. At one extreme, a patient who sustained blunt trauma in a motor vehicle collision may be brought to the operating ro

  [5] Stanford CA-1 p.79
  Section: Latex Allergy. Latex Allergy • Obtain a careful history: – Healthcare workers (frequent exposure) – Children with spina bifida (multiple prior medical procedures/exposures) – Urogenital abnormalities (h/o multiple urogenital catheters) – Food allergies (tropical fruits [mango, kiwi, avocado, passion fruit, bananas], fig, chestnut) • Establish a latex-free environment: – Schedule patient as first case of the day – Most equipment & supplies are latex-free; if available, have a cart of latex-free alternatives available – Remove tops of multi-dose vials when drawing up drugsl with significant latex allergy • Prophylactic steroids and/ or H1-blockers (uncertain benefit) • Prepare for the worst, hope for the best Acute Phase 1. Stop administration of offending antigen (muscle relaxants, latex, antibiotics, colloids, blood, contrast, etc.) 2. Notify surgeon AND call for help 3. Increas

  [6] MGH Housestaff Manual p.192
  Refer for outpt PCN skin testing if (Allergy Referal) if: unclear reaction and likely requirement for that drug in the future See Penicillin Cephalosporin Hypersensitivity Pathway for guidance on inpatient test dose procedure in pts reporting

  [7] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI p.27
  Section: Airway compromise requiring intubation or tracheostomy may. Airway compromise requiring intubation or tracheostomy may occur with malignant edema. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR EVALUATION AND TREATMENT OF BACILLARY ANGIOMATOSIS AND CAT SCRATCH DISEASE XVI. What Is the Appropriate Approach for the Evaluation and Treatment of Bacillary Angiomatosis and Cat Scratch Disease? Azithromycin is recommended for cat scratch disease (strong, moderate) according to the following dosing protocol: (a) Patients >45 kg: 500 mg on day 1 followed by 250 mg for 4 additional days (strong, moderate). (b) Patients <45 kg: 10 mg/kg on day 1 and 5 mg/kg for 4 more days (strong, moderate). 48. Erythromycin 500 mg qid or doxycycline 100 mg bid for 2 weeks to 2 months is recommended for treatment of bacillary angiomatosis (strong, moderate). Evidence Summary In classic cat scratch disease, a papule or pustule devel


=== [25] TOPIC: Bloodstream Infections & Bacteremia | domain: Internal medicine: infectious disease (sepsis & septic shock, pneumonia, UTI/pyelonephritis, cellulitis & necrotizing infections, endocarditis, meningitis, C. diff, HIV, antimicrobial selection & stewardship) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] StatPearls: StatPearls   Bloodstream Infections & Bacteremia p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK441979 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK441979/ Topic: Bloodstream Infections & Bacteremia Article Title: Bacteremia License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. David A. Smith ; Sara M. Nehring . Authors David A. Smith 1 ; Sara M. Nehring 2 . Last Update: July 17, 2023 . Continuing Education Activity Bacteremia, in the strictest sense, refers to viable bacteria in the blood. Asymptomatic bacteremia can occur in normal daily activities such as conducting oral hygiene and after minor medical procedures. In a healthy person, these clinically benign infections are transient and cause no further sequelae. However, when immune response m

  [1] StatPearls: StatPearls   Bloodstream Infections & Bacteremia p.2
  bacteremia. Soft tissue and intraabdominal infections are not as common and are more prevalent in the post-operative surgical setting. Escherichia coli is the most common cause of gram-negative associated bacteremia, while Staphylococcus aureus is the most common gram-positive organism. [4] [5] [6] Geographic region, patient population, drug resistance, and infection prevention practices at each institution drive the causative organisms of bloodstream infections. Taking into account that older patients with multiple comorbidities are more likely to reside in community centers and be hospitalized, it is no surprise that they are at an increased risk of developing bacteremia. Traditionally gram-negative bacilli were the driving force for most hospital-acquired bloodstream infections in the United States and are still the most common organism associated with community-acquired bacteremia. H

  [2] MGH Housestaff Manual p.161
  Section: Febrile Neutropenia. Febrile Neutropenia Lucy Gao D E F I N I T I O N S A N D E T I O L O G Y (J Oncol Pract 2019;15:19; NCCN Prevention and Treatment Guidelines) Definition: T ≥100.4 (≥1hr or oral >100.9) with ANC <500cells/mL or expected to decrease to <500 over the next 48h Functional neutropenia: defective PMNs, common in leukemia (neutrophil function despite ANC>500) Microbiology: ~40-50% have infectious source identified; others attributed to translocation of intestinal bacteria When organisms identified: 40% GNRs (E. coli, Klebs > PsA); 60% GPCs (CoNS > MSSA/MRSA, strep, enterococcus/VRE) esp w/ indwelling lines or mucositis; fungal (Candida, Aspergillus) more likely w/ prolonged ANC, broad-spectrum abx use, or TPN E V A L U A T I O N H&P: prior micro data, time since last chemo, recent antibiotic therapy/ppx, major comorbid illness, use of devices Exam: mouth (mucositi

  [3] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2025 Complicated UTI Executive Summary p.16
  Section: Fluoroquinolones for Stepdown Therapy in Patients with Enterobacterales Bloodstream Infect. 33. Marshall WF, Blair JE. The cephalosporins. Mayo Clin Proc. Feb 1999;74(2):187-95. doi:10.4065/74.2.187 34. Sanchez M, Collvinent B, Miro O, et al. Short-term effectiveness of ceftriaxone single dose in the initial treatment of acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis in women. A randomised controlled trial. Emerg Med J. Jan 2002;19(1):19-22. doi:10.1136/emj.19.1.19 35. Bjork L, Hopkins T, Yang L, et al. Comparative-Effectiveness of Oral Beta-Lactams and Fluoroquinolones for Stepdown Therapy in Patients with Enterobacterales Bloodstream Infections: A Retrospective Cohort Study. Int J Med Sci. 2023;20(4):437-443. doi:10.7150/ijms.80621 36. Fosse PE, Brinkman KM, Brink HM, Conner CE, Aden JK, Giancola SE. Comparing outcomes among outpatients treated for pyelonephritis with oral cephalosporins 

  [4] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2025 Complicated UTI Executive Summary p.15
  Section: 2626. doi:10.1093/jac/dkx139. 16. Sims M, Mariyanovski V, McLeroth P, et al. Prospective, randomized, double-blind, Phase 2 dose- ranging study comparing efficacy and safety of imipenem/cilastatin plus relebactam with imipenem/cilastatin alone in patients with complicated urinary tract infections. J Antimicrob Chemother. Sep 1 2017;72(9):2616- 2626. doi:10.1093/jac/dkx139 17. Wagenlehner FME, Cloutier DJ, Komirenko AS, et al. Once-Daily Plazomicin for Complicated Urinary Tract Infections. N Engl J Med. Feb 21 2019;380(8):729-740. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1801467 18. Kaye KS, Bhowmick T, Metallidis S, et al. Effect of Meropenem-Vaborbactam vs Piperacillin- Tazobactam on Clinical Cure or Improvement and Microbial Eradication in Complicated Urinary Tract Infection: The TANGO I Randomized Clinical Trial. JAMA. Feb 27 2018;319(8):788-799. doi:10.1001/jama.2018.0438 19. Connolly LE, Riddle V

  [5] StatPearls: StatPearls   Bloodstream Infections & Bacteremia p.4
  ne care. Even with strict adherence to infection control, many patients will succumb to a bloodstream infection. Recognizing the predominant organisms associated with each clinical setting can prevent mortality as bloodstream pathogens such as S. aureus , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , and Enterobacter species are associated with a higher mortality rate. Prevention also includes the judicious use of antibiotics, which must take into effect the risk and reward of antibiotic use. The rising prevalence of multi-drug-resistant bacteria has complicated treatment over the years and will continue to do so. This rise makes education, prevention, and adherence to protocol a necessity to counter the debilitating effects of bloodstream infections. Patient isolation, preventing airborne, and contact infections are also key factors that must be controlled. Today, all healthcare facilities have an infectiou

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Bloodstream Infections & Bacteremia p.2
  Traditionally gram-negative bacilli were the driving force for most hospital-acquired bloodstream infections in the United States and are still the most common organism associated with community-acquired bacteremia

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Bloodstream Infections & Bacteremia p.1
  However, when immune response mechanisms fail or become overwhelmed, bacteremia becomes a bloodstream infection that can evolve into many clinical spectrums and is differentiated as septicemia


=== [26] TOPIC: Brain Death & Disorders of Consciousness | domain: Internal medicine: neurology (ischemic & hemorrhagic stroke, seizures & status epilepticus, altered mental status & delirium, headache, neuromuscular weakness, spinal cord syndromes) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] StatPearls: StatPearls   Brain Death & Disorders of Consciousness p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK559254 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK559254/ Topic: Brain Death & Disorders of Consciousness Article Title: Trinucleotide Repeat Disorders License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Trinucleotide Repeat Disorders Sharanya Ramakrishnan ; Vikas Gupta . Authors Sharanya Ramakrishnan 1 ; Vikas Gupta 2 . Last Update: December 11, 2024 . Continuing Education Activity Trinucleotide repeat disorders are neuropsychiatric conditions caused by abnormal trinucleotide repeat expansions. These mutations disrupt protein function or lead to toxic effects, resulting in diverse clinical manifestations. Common presentations include movement disor

  [1] StatPearls: StatPearls   Brain Death & Disorders of Consciousness p.1
  Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK559254 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK559254/ Topic: Brain Death & Disorders of Consciousness Article Title: Trinucleotide Repeat Disorders License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf

  [2] StatPearls: StatPearls   Brain Death & Disorders of Consciousness p.12
  Section: Fragile X syndrome: seizures, otitis media, behavioral disorders, and speech disorders [29. ed were pneumonia and cardiac arrhythmias. [28] Most trinucleotide repeat disorders have a wide spectrum of complications, ranging from debilitating physical disabilities like ataxia, chorea, severe muscle weakness, and connective tissue defects to lethal complications like cardiomyopathy, diaphragmatic weakness, and severe depression, depending on the underlying pathology. Specific associations are as follows: Fragile X syndrome: seizures, otitis media, behavioral disorders, and speech disorders [29] Friedreich ataxia: diabetes mellitus, scoliosis, dilated cardiomyopathy, foot deformity, and sensory impairment [30] SCA: fatigue, pain, dysautonomia, and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavioral disorder Huntington disease: manic-depressive disorder, swallowing difficulties, choking, and i

  [3] StatPearls: StatPearls   Brain Death & Disorders of Consciousness p.13
  assified as type 1 or polyglutamate disorders with abnormal CAG repeats in the coding region and type 2 or nonpolyglutamate disorders. Response to cold, heat, hypoxic, and oxidative stresses is believed to activate complex cellular mechanisms that enhance the likelihood of cell survival. One effect is to relax the fidelity of DNA repair, which has been postulated to cause extensive repeat expansions in even otherwise susceptible microsatellite regions. The inheritance pattern of the repeat expansion diseases is evidence of the dynamic nature of these mutations. The pattern is termed "anticipation," which leads to an earlier and more severe presentation of disease in the progeny. Threshold mutation can occur through anticipation, which may cause disease in a patient with normal parents harboring subthreshold mutations. Diagnosing these disorders requires a strong clinical suspicion, even 

  [4] Marino ICU Book p.630
  Section: DISORDERS OF. DISORDERS OF Abnormal mental fm1ction is one of the most recognizable signs of serious illness. This chapter focuses on the following disorders of mental function: altered consciousness, deliri­ um, coma, and brain death. I. STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS A. States of Consciousness 1. Consciousness has two components: nrousnl and aware­ ness. Arousal is the ability to recognize your surrow1d­ ings (i.e., wakefulness), and awareness is the ability to tmderstand your relationship to the surrotmdings (i.e., responsiveness). 2. Arousal and awareness can be used to define the differ­ ent states of consciousness, as shown in Table 40.1 B. Altered Consciousness Altered consciousness is an abnormality in arousal and/ or awareness. There are a multitude of conditions that can cause altered consciousness, and these can be organized as follows: 1. Conditions that cause direct brain 

  [5] StatPearls: StatPearls   Brain Death & Disorders of Consciousness p.11
  in patients with Fragile X syndrome. New targeted treatments for Fragile X syndrome, including mGluR5 antagonists, γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A and B agonists, and minocycline, are being studied to that effect. [23] Marrow stromal cells (MSCs) are under investigation as a treatment for neurodegenerative trinucleotide repeat disorders that are often fatal, particularly Huntington disease. The therapy is being tested in FDA-approved phase I to III clinical trials for various disorders following promising results from extensive preclinical studies on neurodegenerative conditions. Potential benefits arise from the innate trophic properties of MSCs or the delivery of enhanced growth factors, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). These factors, introduced into the brain using MSCs as delivery vehicles, reduce free radical damage through 

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Brain Death & Disorders of Consciousness p.9
  Section: Differential Diagnosis. ad to respiratory impairment and nocturnal hypoventilation. Monitoring changes in forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) from a sitting to a supine position during clinic visits may help. Many patients eventually require noninvasive nighttime ventilatory support. Placing a pacemaker or cardiac defibrillator can be lifesaving for individuals with DM1. An annual ECG should be performed to monitor heart function. Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis of trinucleotide repeat disorders includes various neurologic conditions with associated systemic symptoms. The list below categorizes these diseases by their resemblance to specific trinucleotide repeat disorders. Differential Diagnosis of Friedreich Ataxia Ataxia with isolated vitamin E deficiency Dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy Hereditary motor and sensory n

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Brain Death & Disorders of Consciousness p.1
  Trinucleotide Repeat Disorders Sharanya Ramakrishnan


=== [27] TOPIC: Carbon Monoxide Poisoning | domain: Internal medicine: emergency & acute care (cardiopulmonary resuscitation, trauma primary survey, toxicology & overdoses, environmental emergencies, anaphylaxis, acute abdomen) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.1346
  Section: Excessive fluid resuscitation volumes are associated with an increased incidence of. Excessive fluid resuscitation volumes are associated with an increased incidence of pneumonia. Patients with severe burns frequently have a related pulmonary injury. Decreased tracheal ciliary activity, the presence of resuscitation-induced pulmonary edema, reduced immunocompetence, and tracheal intubation predispose burn patients to pneumonia. ACS can have an adverse impact on pulmonary function. Intravenous fluid administration volumes must be monitored closely and documented to be consistent with American Burn Association recommendations (ie, the Parkland or modified Brooke protocol). Fluid administration that exceeds recommendations warrants a careful review of the rationale. D. Carbon Monoxide and Cyanide Poisoning The differential diagnosis for altered mental status following burn injury a

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.2135
  Section: After smoke inhalation, a direct mucosal injury may result in edema, inflammation,. disease. Combustion of synthetic materials may produce toxic gases such as carbon monoxide, hydrogen cyanide, hydrogen sulfide, hydrogen chloride, ammonia, chlorine, benzene, and aldehydes. When these gases react with water in the airways, they can produce hydrochloric, acetic, formic, and sulfuric acids. Carbon monoxide and cyanide poisoning are common. After smoke inhalation, a direct mucosal injury may result in edema, inflammation, and sloughing. Loss of ciliary activity impairs the clearance of mucus and bacteria. Manifestations of acute lung injury and ARDS typically appear 2 to 3 days after the injury and seem related to the delayed development of SIRS rather than the acute smoke inhalation itself. Clinical Manifestations Patients may have minimal initial symptoms after smoke inhalation. S

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.841
  Section: Abnormal Ligands & Abnormal Forms of Hemoglobin. beneficial, its physiological importance normally seems minor. 2,3-DPG levels may, however, play an important compensatory role in patients with chronic anemia and may significantly affect the O2-carrying capacity of blood transfusions. Abnormal Ligands & Abnormal Forms of Hemoglobin Carbon monoxide, cyanide, sulfur monoxide, and hydrogen sulfide can combine with hemoglobin at O2-binding sites. Carbon monoxide is particularly potent, having 200 to 300 times the affinity of O2 for hemoglobin, combining with it to form carboxyhemoglobin. Carbon monoxide decreases hemoglobin’s O2-carrying capacity and impairs the release of O2 to tissues. Carbon dioxide binds to a different site on heme, allosterically favoring the unloading of O2. The interaction of nitric oxide with hemoglobin is complex, and some investigators have hypothesized th

  [3] Morgan & Mikhail p.268
  Section: Contraindications. other volatile anesthetics, is degraded by desiccated CO2 absorbent (particularly barium hydroxide lime, but also sodium and potassium hydroxide) into potentially clinically important levels of carbon monoxide. Carbon monoxide poisoning is difficult to diagnose under general anesthesia, but the presence of carboxyhemoglobin may be detectable by arterial blood gas analysis or lower than expected pulse oximetry readings (though still falsely high). Disposing of dried-out absorbent or use of calcium hydroxide can minimize the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning. Desflurane is the most ozone-depleting of the inhalation anesthetics. Desflurane shares many of the contraindications of other modern volatile anesthetics: severe hypovolemia, malignant hyperthermia, and intracranial hypertension. Drug Interactions Desflurane potentiates nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocki

  [4] Morgan & Mikhail p.1346
  Carbon Monoxide and Cyanide Poisoning The differential diagnosis for altered mental status following burn injury and smoke inhalation includes carbon monoxide and cyanide poisoning (see Chapter 57)

  [5] Morgan & Mikhail p.2136
  Section: Cyanide toxicity may occur after fires that contain synthetic materials, particularly. Cyanide toxicity may occur after fires that contain synthetic materials, particularly those containing polyurethane. After cyanide is inhaled or absorbed through mucosal surfaces and skin, it binds the cytochrome enzymes and inhibits cellular production of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Patients present with neurological impairment and lactic acidosis, often accompanied by arrhythmias, increased cardiac output, and marked vasodilation. A chemical burn of the respiratory mucosa follows the inhalation of large amounts of burned or burning debris, particularly when combined with toxic fumes. Inflammation of the airways results in bronchorrhea and wheezing. Bronchial edema and sloughing of the mucosa lead to obstruction of the lower airways and atelectasis. Progressive ventilation/perfusion mismatc

  [6] Morgan & Mikhail p.2235
  Section: Seldinger’s technique, 87–88, 89f. complications of, 83 digital readouts vs. arterial waveform in, 85 internal jugular vein, 87–88 radial artery, 81–83, 82f Seldinger’s technique, 87–88, 89f subclavian vein, 87–88, 88f techniques for, 88 Capillaries, 363 Capillary fluid exchange, 1162f Capnograph, 117f, 327 Capnography, 115–116, 793 clinical considerations, 116 complications of, 116 diverting (sidestream) capnographs, 116 indications and contraindications, 115–116 pediatric applications of, 915 techniques for, 116 Capsaicin, 288, 1081 Caput medusae, 742 Carbamazepine, 627t, 1098, 1102t, 1104 Carbohydrate drinks, 1140–1141 Carbon dioxide (CO2) absorbent, 40–42, 42f absorber, 40–42, 42f accumulation, 34 bicarbonate, 529 blood transport of, 528–530, 529t carbamino compounds, 529 dissociation curve, 530, 531f dissolved carbon dioxide, 529 hemoglobin buffering effect on transport, 52

  [7] Morgan & Mikhail p.192
  Because carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) and Hbo2 absorb light at 660 nm, pulse oximeters that compare only two wavelengths of light will register a falsely high reading in patients with carbon monoxide poisoning


=== [28] TOPIC: Catheter-Associated UTI (CAUTI) | domain: Internal medicine: infectious disease (sepsis & septic shock, pneumonia, UTI/pyelonephritis, cellulitis & necrotizing infections, endocarditis, meningitis, C. diff, HIV, antimicrobial selection & stewardship) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] MGH Housestaff Manual p.119
  Section: Infectious Disease. Infectious Disease Urinary Tract Infections Katie Kaugars A S Y M P T O M A T I C B A C T E R I U R I A Definition: bacteriuria (≥105 CFU/mL) w/o sx referable to a UTI, irrespective of pyuria Treatment: asymptomatic bacteriuria or pyuria should NOT be treated (exceptions: pregnant woman, s/p renal transplant in past 1mo (controversial), treatment prior to invasive urologic procedures) (IDSA: CID 2019;68:1611) C A T H E T E R-A S S O C I A T E D UTI (CAUTI) (IDSA: CID 2010; 50:625) Definition: leading healthcare-assoc. infection; requires: (1) s/sx with no other identified source of infection; AND (2) UCx with one uropathogenic species >103 CFU/ml from single catheterized urine specimen (catheter in place >2d) OR midstream voided specimen from pt whose catheter was removed w/in previous 48h In pts w/ neurogenic bladder and  sensation, other signs of UTI inclu

  [1] Miller/Baby Miller p.772
  Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE medication dose adjustments for creatinine clearance, and electrolyte and acid–base monitoring. Platelet dys- function may occur as a result of uremia and require desmopressin (DDAVP) for support if bleeding is prob- lematic. Pharmacologic approaches to improve renal function such as low-dose dopamine, diuretics, and N-acetylcysteine have not shown benefit. Dialysis is often required in patients with advanced renal failure to help with excessive intravascular volume and electrolyte disturbances. In the ICU dialysis can be offered as intermittent hemodialysis (iHD) or continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT), which is itself divided into versions that rely on hemodialysis (CVVHD) or hemofiltration (CVVH). Although CRRT has several theo- retical advantages over iHD in hemodynamically unsta- ble

  [2] StatPearls: StatPearls   Shock  Classification & Pathophysiology p.5
  Section: Routes of Transmission. nding on the host response and the organism involved, this can lead to localized or systemic infection. Routes of Transmission Pathogens causing HAIs are transmitted through various routes, with contact transmission being the most common. This includes direct or indirect contact transmission and is associated with organisms such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus , extended-spectrum β-lactamase–producing gram-negative bacteria, vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus , Clostridioides difficile , and rotavirus. Droplet transmission occurs via large respiratory droplets (>5 microns) that travel short distances (<3 feet), as seen with the influenza virus, Bordetella pertussis , and Neisseria meningitidis . Airborne transmission involves smaller droplets (<5 microns) that can travel longer distances, facilitating the spread of pathogens such as Mycobact

  [3] StatPearls: StatPearls   Shock  Classification & Pathophysiology p.12
  symptom timing; symptoms should begin while the CVC is in place or within 48 hours of its removal. CAUTI : Distinguishing CAUTI from community-acquired UTI is essential, as the latter occurs without recent urinary catheter use. UTIs may present as lower tract infections, such as acute cystitis or urethritis, or upper tract infections, including pyelonephritis, nephrolithiasis, or ureteritis. Accurate classification guides appropriate management and helps prevent unnecessary catheter-related interventions. SSI : Postoperative fever may result from various causes unrelated to SSI, including atelectasis, pneumonia, UTI, medication adverse effects, or drug reactions. Other conditions may produce localized pain at the surgical site but are not classified as SSIs, such as wound dehiscence, wound herniation, cellulitis, burns, gas gangrene or myonecrosis, neoplasms, or septic thrombophlebitis. 

  [4] Morgan & Mikhail p.2148
  Section: Although gram-negative organisms account for most cases of infection-related SIRS,. may normally have salutatory effects. However, a marked or prolonged response, such as that associated with severe infections, can result in widespread organ dysfunction. Although gram-negative organisms account for most cases of infection-related SIRS, many other infectious agents are capable of inducing the same syndrome. These organisms either elaborate toxins or stimulate the release of substances that trigger this response. The most commonly recognized initiators are lipopolysaccharides released by gram-negative bacteria. Lipopolysaccharides are composed of an O polysaccharide, a core, and lipid A. Lipid A, an endotoxin, is responsible for the compounds’ toxicity, which can affect nearly every organ. The central mechanism in initiating SIRS appears to be the abnormal secretion of cytokines. 

  [5] Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2025 Complicated UTI Executive Summary p.14
  Section: References. 1. Seo YB, Lee J, Kim YK, et al. Randomized controlled trial of piperacillin-tazobactam, cefepime and ertapenem for the treatment of urinary tract infection caused by extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing Escherichia coli. BMC Infect Dis. Jun 7 2017;17(1):404. doi:10.1186/s12879-017-2502-x 2. Badaro R, Molinar F, Seas C, et al. A multicenter comparative study of cefepime versus broad-spectrum antibacterial therapy in moderate and severe bacterial infections. Braz J Infect Dis. Oct 2002;6(5):206-18. doi:10.1590/s1413-86702002000500001 3. Kaye KS, Belley A, Barth P, et al. Effect of Cefepime/Enmetazobactam vs Piperacillin/Tazobactam on Clinical Cure and Microbiological Eradication in Patients With Complicated Urinary Tract Infection or Acute Pyelonephritis: A Randomized Clinical Trial. JAMA. Oct 4 2022;328(13):1304-1314. doi:10.1001/jama.2022.17034 4. Bassetti M, 

  [6] Miller/Baby Miller p.772
  Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infection No single strategy prevents catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTIs)

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Shock  Classification & Pathophysiology p.6
  Section: Surgical site infection. at occur in the presence of an indwelling urinary catheter placed for various medical indications. Please see StatPearls' companion resource, " Complicated Urinary Tract Infections ," for more information. Approximately 15% to 25% of those hospitalized in the US receive a urinary catheter. CAUTIs are classified as extraluminal or intraluminal. Extraluminal infections result from bacterial migration along the outer surface of the catheter from the urethral meatus to the bladder. Intraluminal infections arise from urinary stasis or ascending infection through a contaminated catheter lumen. Biofilm formation by bacterial or fungal pathogens facilitates colonization and persistence on catheter surfaces. Common pathogens originate from fecal and skin flora, with E coli being the most frequently reported, followed by K pneumoniae or oxytoca , Enterococcus spec


=== [29] TOPIC: Chest Trauma | domain: Internal medicine: emergency & acute care (cardiopulmonary resuscitation, trauma primary survey, toxicology & overdoses, environmental emergencies, anaphylaxis, acute abdomen) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Stanford CA-1 p.73
  Section: What is laryngospasm?. What is laryngospasm? – Closure of the true vocal cords (+/- the false vocal cords) from the action of laryngeal muscles →occlusion of the glottis/laryngeal inlet – Mediated by Superior Laryngeal Nerve – Consequences include hypoxia, hypercapnia, and negative pressure pulmonary edema (NPPE) Predisposing Factors – Stage 2 of anesthesia (excitement/delirium) – Light anesthesia relative to surgical stimulation – Mechanical irritants to the airway • Blood, mucous, vomit, secretions • ETT (RR 12) > LMA (RR 7) > facemask • Suctioning – Reactive airway disease, eczema, asthma, rhinitis, smoking exposure – Recent upper respiratory tract infection (< 1 month); (RR 3.4) – Pediatrics ~3x more likely than adults – Ensure adequate anesthetic depth before manipulation or movement of patient – Clear secretions before extubationsuction – Topicalize larynx with local anest

  [1] MGH Housestaff Manual p.55
  Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care VTE Management Daniel Restifo M A N A G E M E N T O F VTE (CHEST: Chest 2021;160:545); ESC: EHJ 2020;41:543); ASH: Blood Adv 2020;19;4693) Proximal DVT (popliteal, femoral, iliac vv.) Distal DVT (calf: ant./post. tibial, peroneal vv.) Anti-coagulate (unless contraindications), regardless of sx Agent: DOAC > VKA > LMWH; if malig.: DOAC > LMWH > VKA (for dosing & info on choosing agent, see AC and AC Mgmt sections) Duration: at least 3mo for all. Individualized decision to extend >3 mo, balancing bleeding risk with risk factors of recurrence (eg provoked vs non-provoked, malignancy-related or not, APLS or not) If stop AC, consider ASA 100mg if no contraindications (NEJM 2012;367:1979; NEJM 2012;366:1959; Circ 2014;130:1062) IVC filter: Only if contraindications to AC (e.g. active bleeding, recent/planned high bleeding-risk proce

  [2] MGH Housestaff Manual p.52
  Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care Bronchiectasis & Hemoptysis Dan Fulop B R ON C H I E C T A S I S (permanent airway dilatation from recurrent infxn/inflammation) (AJRCCM 2013;188:647; NEJM 2022;387:533) Symptoms Chronic productive cough, recurrent bronchitis/pneumonia, wheezing, dyspnea, hemoptysis, recurrent pleurisy Recurrent insult: infection (PNA, MAC, TB, PsA, childhood infections, ABPA), inhalation, GERD/aspiration Impaired immunity: mucus clearance (CF, 1° ciliary dyskinesia [PCD]), immunodeficiency (e.g., HIV, CVID, IgG) Obstruction: foreign body, tumor, COPD, tracheomalacia/tracheobronchomegaly, CTD (Marfan’s), radiation Systemic disease: RA, Sjogren’s, SLE, IBD, A1AT; Idiopathic = ~50% Dx: 1) productive cough most days/week, 2) exacerbations, and 3) CT w/ ≥1 of: bronchial diameter > adj artery (signet-ring sign), thickened bronchi w/ lack of taper

  [3] Stanford CA-1 p.54
  Section: Causes of Hypoxemia. Causes of Hypoxemia A-a Gradient Corrects w/ Low inspired O2 Diffusion Impairment V/Q Mismatch Normal /  Shunt: perfusion without ventilaton (V/Q=0); see ↓pO2. No increase in pCO2 (2/2 chemoreceptor mediated hyperventilation) until shunt fraction50% Dead Space: ventilation without perfusion (V/Q=∞); see ↑pCO2 Alveolar Gas Equation PAO2 = FiO2 (Patm - PH2O) - (PaCO2 / 0.8) = 0.21 (760 - 47) - (40 / 0.8) ≈ 100 mm Hg Alveolar-arterial (A-a) Gradient P(A-a)O2 = PAO2 - PaO2 Normal A-a Gradient: • < 10 mm Hg (FiO2 = 0.21) • < 60 mm Hg (FiO2 = 1.00) • < (age / 4) + 4 • a/A ratio > 0.75 Normal PaO2: • 103 - age/3 Causes of Hypoxemia 1. Low inspired O2 Altitude (normal FiO2, decreased barometric pressure) Hypoxic FiO2 gas mixture (crossed gas lines, loss of pipeline pressure) 2. Hypoventilation Drugs (opioids, benzodiazepines, barbiturates), chest wall damage (e.g.

  [4] Miller/Baby Miller p.242
  Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT Apr;127(4):275–280. doi:10.1016/j. amjmed.2013.11.014. Epub 2013 Dec 11. PMID: 24333200. 9. Fleisher LA, Fleischmann KE, Auerbach AD, etal. 2014 ACC/AHA guideline on perioperative cardiovascular evaluation and management of patients under- going noncardiac surgery: A report of the American College of Cardiol- ogy/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014 Dec 9;64(22):e77–e137. doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2014.07.944. 2014 Aug 1. PMID: 25091544. 10. Kristensen SD, Knuuti J, Saraste A, etal. 2014 ESC/ESA guidelines on non-cardi- ac surgery: Cardiovascular assessment and management: The Joint Task Force on Non-Cardiac Surgery: Cardiovascular assessment and management of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) an

  [5] Stanford CA-1 p.46
  Section: Fluid Management. Fluid Management Evaluation of Intravascular Volume • Hypovolemia: vomiting, diarrhea, fever, sepsis, trauma • Hypervolemia: weight gain, edema, acute renal failure, Physical Exam • Hypovolemia: skin turgor, thready pulse, dry mucous membranes, tachycardia, orthostasis, decreased UOP • Hypervolemia: pitting edema, rales, wheezing, elevated JVP • Hypovolemia: rising Hct, contraction alkalosis then metabolic acidosis, Ur specific gravity > 1.010, Urine Na < 10, Urine Osm > 450, hypernatremia, BUN:Cr > 10:1; bedside ultrasound (IVC <1.7cm OR 1.7cm with >50% IVCCI) • Hypervolemia: increased pulmonary vascular markings on Intraoperative Intravascular Assessment Monitor trends and compare multiple modalities to confirm clinical impressions HR and BP trends, though consider the impact of positive pressure ventilation and anesthetics when interpreting these parameters 

  [6] MGH Housestaff Manual p.80
  Section: Esophageal and Upper GI Disorders. Esophageal and Upper GI Disorders Jennifer Kizza-Brown G A S T R O P A R E S I S (ACG: AJG 2022;117:1197-1220) Definition: delayed gastric emptying of solid food w/o mechanical obstruction Sx: nausea, vomiting of undigested food, early satiety, postprandial fullness, bloating ± abd pain Etiologies: diabetes (vagus nerve damage 2/2 hyperglycemia), post-viral, post-surgical (e.g. vagus nerve injury post-bariatric surgery), systemic disease (thyroid, critical illness, Parkinson’s, CTD), meds (opiates, CCB, anti-cholinergics), chronically decreased PO Dx: Gastric emptying tests (hold motility meds, opiates 48h prior). Diagnose with scintigraphy (most common) or wireless motility capsule/C13 breath test. EGD to exclude obstruction. Gastric scintigraphy: (radiolabeled egg > liquid) positive if >10% retention at 4hr and/or >60% retention at 2hr. Indic

  [7] MGH Housestaff Manual p.243
  Section: Danielle Larrow. Danielle Larrow E P I S T A X I S (N O S E B L E E D) Acute management: (UpToDate Epistaxis) 1. Have patient lean forward, pinch nostrils, and hold pressure for 20 min Guidance: pinch over the soft portion of the nose; do NOT lean head back or pinch bony part of nose; do NOT “peek” – hold continuous pressure for 20 min; patient may be unable to hold pinch, best for RN/MD to do 2. Afrin (oxymetazoline 0.025%) nasal spray (after gently clearing clots) Guidance: GENEROUSLY SPRAY (5-10 sprays) on both sides then hold pressure again for 20 min as above 3. Control SBP (goal < 120) if much greater than baseline; correct coagulopathy if present and able to 4. Consult ENT if continued bleed after above steps Treatment: silver nitrate cauterization, resorbable nasal packing, non-resorbable nasal packing, Neuro IR embolization Non-resorbable nasal packing: risk of Toxic Sh


=== [30] TOPIC: Coagulopathy & Hematologic Emergencies in ICU | domain: Internal medicine: ICU & critical care (all-cause shock, vasopressors & inotropes, invasive & noninvasive ventilation, sedation & analgesia, multiorgan failure, rapid response, ACLS) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.1353
  Section: Cantle PM, Cotton BA. Balanced resuscitation in trauma management. Surg Clin North. Association for the Surgery of Trauma. J Trauma Acute Care Surg. 2017;82:605. Cantle PM, Cotton BA. Balanced resuscitation in trauma management. Surg Clin North Am. 2017;97:999. Clifford L, Qing J, Kor DJ, et al. Risk factors and clinical outcomes associated with perioperative transfusion-associated circulatory overload. Anesthesiology. 2017;126:409. Curry N, Brohi K. Surgery in traumatic injury and perioperative considerations. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2020;46:73. Dauer E, Goldberg A. What’s new in trauma resuscitation? Adv Surg. 2019;53:221. Holcomb JB, Tilley BC, Baraniuk S, et al. Transfusion of plasma, platelets and red blood cells in a 1:1:1 vs a 1:1:2 ratio and mortality in patients with severe trauma: the PROPPR randomized clinical trial. JAMA. 2015;313:471. Kalkwarf KJ, Cotton BA. Resuscitat

  [1] Society Guideline p.65
  Section: 168. Magill SS, Edwards JR, Bamberg W, et al; Emerging. 168. Magill SS, Edwards JR, Bamberg W, et al; Emerging Infections Program Healthcare-Associated Infections and Antimicrobial Use Prevalence Survey Team: Multistate point- prevalence survey of health care-associated infections. N Engl J Med 2014; 370:1198–1208 169. Méan M, Marchetti O, Calandra T: Bench-to-bedside review: Candida infections in the intensive care unit. Crit Care 2008; 12:204 170. Pappas PG, Kauffman CA, Andes DR, et al: Clinical practice guideline for the management of candidiasis: 2016 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis 2016; 62:e1–50 171. Garey KW, Rege M, Pai MP, et al: Time to initiation of flucon- azole therapy impacts mortality in patients with candidemia: A multi-institutional study. Clin Infect Dis 2006; 43:25–31 172. Marriott DJ, Playford EG, Chen S, et al; Australi

  [2] Miller/Baby Miller p.925
  Section: Index. minimum alveolar concentration, 88, 90f, 90t, 91b obesity and, 48 occupational hazards of, 875 organ system effects, 92 cardiovascular system, 94, 94f central nervous system, 92, 93f hepatic system, 95, 96f neuromuscular function, 96 pulmonary system, 94, 95f renal system, 95, 96f pharmacology of, 617 physical properties, 83 toxicity and adverse events, 97 cancer recurrence and morbidity, developmental neurotoxicity, 99 malignant hyperthermia, 98, 98f, 99t postoperative cognitive dysfunction, 100b, 100 postoperative nausea and vomiting, 97, 97f reactions with carbon dioxide absorbents, 101, 101t, 102f unique issues with nitrous oxide, 96, 97f uptake and distribution in the body, anesthetic circuit, 85 concentration and second gas effects, 88, 89f gas exchange, 87, 88f partition coefcients, 85, 87f vaporizers, 85, 86f Inhaled induction, of anesthesia, shunt and, 224, 617 

  [3] Miller/Baby Miller p.467
  Section: Chapter 24 Fluid Management. Chapter 24 Fluid Management 8. Young JB, Utter GH, Schermer CR, etal. Saline versus Plasma- Lyte A in initial resuscitation of trauma patients: A rand- omized trial. Ann Surg. Feb 2014;259(2):255–262. doi:10.1097/ SLA.0b013e318295feba. 9. Soussi S, Ferry A, Chaussard M, Legrand M. Chloride toxicity in critically ill patients: What's the evidence? Anaesth Crit Care Pain Med. 2017;36(2):125–130. doi:10.1016/j.accpm.2016.03.008. 10. Chaussard M, Dépret F, Saint-Aubin O, etal. Physiologi- cal response to fluid resuscitation with Ringer lactate versus Plasmalyte in critically ill burn patients. J Appl Physiol. 2020;128(3):709–714. doi:10.1152/japplphysiol.00859.2019 (1985). 11. Mehta BR, Fischer D, Ahmad M, Dubose TD. Effects of acetate and bicarbonate hemodialysis on cardiac function in chronic dialysis patients. Kidney Int. 1983;24(6):782–787. doi:10.

  [4] Marino ICU Book p.733
  Section: Goldfrank's toxicologic emergencies. 8th ed. New York: McGraw­. 7 1 6 Toxicology 10. Howland MA. 1-Acetylcysteine. In: Flomenbaum NE, et al., eds. Goldfrank's toxicologic emergencies. 8th ed. New York: McGraw­ HiU, 2006: 544-549. 11. Sunman W, Hughes AD, Sever PS. Anaphylactoid response to in­ travenous acetylcysteine. Lancet 1992; 339:1231-1232. 12. Appelboam AV, Dargan PI, Knighton J. Fatal anaphylactoid reac­ tion to N-acetylcysteine: caution in patients with asthma. Emerg Med J 2002; 19:594-595. 13. Watson WA, Litovitz TL, Rodgers GC, Jr., et al. 2004 Annual re­ port of the American Association of Poison Control Centers Toxic Exposure Surveillance System. Am J Emerg Med 2005; 23:589-666. 14. Shalansky SJ, Naumann TL, Englander FA. Effect of flumazenil on benzodiazepine-induced respiratory depression. Clin Pharm 1993; 12:483-487. 15. Gross JB, Weller RS, Conard P. Flumazen.il

  [5] StatPearls: StatPearls   Oncologic emergencies  tumor lysis syndrome p.13
  of an interprofessional team comprising oncologists, nephrologists, internists, intensivists, and intensive care unit (ICU) nurses

  [6] StatPearls p.4
  Section: Specific Indications for LT. D to include serum sodium (eg, MELD-Na), as hyponatremia is a common and important marker of cirrhosis severity. A strong indication for LT evaluation arises when individuals with cirrhosis develop complications such as ascites, variceal bleeding, hepatic encephalopathy, or hepatocellular dysfunction, typically reflected by a MELD score 15 or greater. However, MELD has known limitations, as it does not account for complications like refractory ascites, recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding, chronic encephalopathy, hepatopulmonary syndrome, portopulmonary hypertension, or severe pruritus—all of which significantly increase mortality risk. To address these gaps, MELD exception points are granted for conditions such as hepatocellular carcinoma, Budd-Chiari syndrome, familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy, cystic fibrosis, hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasi

  [7] StatPearls: StatPearls   Oncologic emergencies  tumor lysis syndrome p.13
  of an interprofessional team comprising oncologists, nephrologists, internists, intensivists, and intensive care unit (ICU) nurses. Clinicians and advanced practitioners must leverage their clinical expertise to develop and implement evidence-based treatment plans addressing the metabolic abnormalities associated with tumor lysis syndrome. ICU and oncology nurses play a critical role in treating patients with tumor lysis syndrome by providing continuous monitoring and promptly communicating any deviations in vital signs to clinicians. Pharmacists ensure accurate medication management, optimize therapeutic regimens, and mitigate potential drug interactions. Effective interprofessional communication is essential, with team members sharing vital information and collaborating to refine care plans. Ethical considerations, including respect for patient autonomy and the assurance of informed co


=== [31] TOPIC: Corticosteroid complications & steroid-sparing strategies | domain: Internal medicine: rheumatology, immunology & allergy (gout & crystal arthropathy, SLE, RA, vasculitides, anaphylaxis & angioedema, drug reactions) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.1298
  Section: Electrocardiography may show ischemic ST-segment changes and a pattern of right-. The diagnosis of fat embolism syndrome is suggested by petechiae on the chest, upper extremities, axillae, and conjunctiva. Fat globules occasionally may be observed in the retina (with ophthalmoscopy), urine, or sputum. Coagulation abnormalities such as thrombocytopenia or prolonged clotting times are occasionally present. Serum lipase activity may be elevated but does not predict disease severity. Pulmonary involvement typically progresses from mild hypoxia and a normal chest radiograph to severe hypoxia or respiratory failure with radiographic findings of diffuse pulmonary opacities. Most of the classic signs and symptoms of fat embolism syndrome occur 1 to 3 days after the precipitating event. During general anesthesia, signs may include a decline in ETCO2 and arterial oxygen saturation and a r

  [1] StatPearls: StatPearls   Bone marrow transplantation  complications p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK578174 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK578174/ Topic: Bone marrow transplantation: complications Article Title: Bone marrow transplantation: complications License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Cytomegalovirus Corneal Endotheliitis Manasi Tripathi ; Ashish Markan ; Bharat Gurnani . Authors Manasi Tripathi 1 ; Ashish Markan 2 ; Bharat Gurnani 3 . Last Update: September 15, 2025 . Continuing Education Activity Cytomegalovirus (CMV) corneal endotheliitis is an underrecognized cause of corneal endothelial dysfunction that can lead to progressive vision loss and secondary glaucoma. The condition typically arises in immunocompetent

  [2] StatPearls: StatPearls   Bone marrow transplantation  complications p.29
  le vision loss in some patients. Steroid-induced ocular hypertension, a complication of long-term topical corticosteroid use, further exacerbates the problem. Management requires regular IOP monitoring, appropriate anti-glaucoma therapy, and early surgical intervention in refractory cases. [99] In patients who develop CMV endotheliitis after penetrating or endothelial keratoplasty, infection of the donor endothelium leads to graft edema, rejection-like episodes, and eventual graft failure. This complication occurs in up to 40% of infected grafts. Recurrence of CMV in the graft significantly reduces graft survival and increases the risk of multiple repeat surgeries. Perioperative antiviral prophylaxis and close graft surveillance are essential to optimize graft outcomes. Even with adequate antiviral therapy, recurrences occur in 30% to 50% of patients, particularly if treatment is tapered

  [3] StatPearls p.17
  Section: The most common late complications include:. tion of the liver allograft, which presents immediately after transplantation. Clinically, this is characterized by the absence of bile production or the production of clear bile, accompanied by worsening liver enzymes and rising bilirubin levels. Without urgent retransplantation, the patient’s survival is at extreme risk. During the first 48 to 72 hours posttransplant, it is common to observe elevated liver enzymes due to graft injury from cold and warm ischemia during organ removal and implantation. However, it is vital to exclude hepatic artery thrombosis in this setting, as this complication often occurs early but can also develop later. [85] Hepatic artery thrombosis may present asymptomatically or with fever and rising liver enzymes, and if untreated, can progress to hepatic ischemia, necrosis, and ischemic cholangiopathy. Sever

  [4] StatPearls: StatPearls   Pituitary Apoplexy p.1
  Objectives: Apply evidence-based emergency management strategies to stabilize patients with pituitary apoplexy and reduce life-threatening complications, including rapid initiation of corticosteroid therapy to prevent adrenal crisis

  [5] StatPearls: StatPearls   Adrenal Crisis p.12
  Section: Deterrence and Patient Education. nfection is identified or suspected as the precipitating factor Other specialists : Based on specific clinical findings or complications (eg, nephrology for renal issues) Deterrence and Patient Education More than 50% of patients with adrenal crisis do not have a prior diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency. Therefore, clinician familiarity with the diagnosis and use of stress dose steroids to manage adrenal crises effectively is essential. [71] Additionally, patients should be educated by their clinicians based on the following guidelines: Patients should be aware of the sick day rules, which involve doubling or tripling their daily oral dose of glucocorticoids during an acute illness. This helps mimic the physiological response of increased cortisol levels under stressful situations. [23] For a fever exceeding 100.4 °F (38 °C), doubling the oral c

  [6] StatPearls: StatPearls   Pituitary Apoplexy p.1
  Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK559222 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK559222/ Topic: Pituitary Apoplexy Article Title: Pituitary Apoplexy License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Walter A. Hall ; Orlando De Jesus . Authors Walter A. Hall 1 ; Orlando De Jesus 2 . Last Update: September 3, 2025 . Continuing Education Activity Pituitary apoplexy is a rare but potentially fatal endocrine emergency resulting from sudden hemorrhage or infarction within the pituitary gland, frequently in the setting of a pituitary adenoma. The condition often presents with abrupt and severe headache, visual field loss, ophthalmoplegia, nausea, vomiting, and, in some cases, altered 

  [7] Miller/Baby Miller p.505
  Section: Chapter 27 Chronic Pulmonary Disease. Chapter 27 Chronic Pulmonary Disease ventilation is used, the pressure in a bulla will become positive in relation to the adjacent lung tissue and the bulla will expand, with the attendant risk of rupture, tension pneumothorax, and bronchopleural fistula. Pos- itive-pressure ventilation can be used safely in patients with bullae, provided the airway pressures are low and adequate expertise and equipment are immediately available to insert a chest drain and obtain lung isola- tion if necessary. Nitrous oxide will diffuse into a bulla more quickly than the less soluble nitrogen can diffuse out and may lead to rupture of the bulla. The presence of bullae should be ascertained by examination of the chest imaging of any patient with COPD preoperatively. Flow Limitation Severe COPD patients are often flow limited, even dur- ing normal breathing. F


=== [32] TOPIC: Digoxin Toxicity | domain: Internal medicine: emergency & acute care (cardiopulmonary resuscitation, trauma primary survey, toxicology & overdoses, environmental emergencies, anaphylaxis, acute abdomen) | discipline: medicine ===
  [0] Morgan & Mikhail p.1882
  The exception is the rare patient receiving digoxin who risks developing digoxin toxicity from the hypokalemia; plasma [K+] values above 4 mEq/L are desirable in such patients

  [1] Morgan & Mikhail p.1882
  Section: Potassium chloride is the preferred potassium salt when a metabolic alkalosis is. correct the entire potassium deficit. Because of potassium’s irritative effect on peripheral veins, peripheral intravenous replacement should not exceed 8 mEq/h. More rapid intravenous potassium replacement (10–20 mEq/h) requires central venous administration and close ECG monitoring. Intravenous replacement should generally not exceed 240 mEq/d. Dextrose-containing solutions should be avoided in cases of hypokalemia because the resulting hyperglycemia and secondary insulin secretion may worsen the low plasma [K+]. Potassium chloride is the preferred potassium salt when a metabolic alkalosis is also present because it also corrects the chloride deficit discussed earlier. Potassium bicarbonate or equivalent (K+ acetate or K+ citrate) may be used in patients with metabolic acidosis. Potassium phospha

  [2] Morgan & Mikhail p.1886
  Section: Treatment of Hyperkalemia. (occasionally elevation) → an ECG that resembles a sine wave, before progressing to ventricular fibrillation and asystole. Contractility may be relatively well preserved until late in the course of progressive hyperkalemia. Hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, and acidosis accentuate the cardiac effects of hyperkalemia. FIGURE 49–7 Electrocardiographic effects of hyperkalemia. Electrocardiographic changes characteristically progress from symmetrically peaked T waves, often with a shortened QT interval, to widening of the QRS complex, prolongation of the P–R interval, loss of the P wave, loss of R-wave amplitude, and ST-segment depression (occasionally elevation)—to an ECG that resembles a sine wave—before final progression into ventricular fibrillation or asystole. Treatment of Hyperkalemia Because of its lethal potential, hyperkalemia exceeding 6 mEq/L should 

  [3] Morgan & Mikhail p.1886
  Care must be exercised in administering calcium salts to patients taking digoxin because calcium potentiates digoxin toxicity

  [4] Morgan & Mikhail p.1899
  Section: Severe vomiting or diarrhea. Severe vomiting or diarrhea Chronic laxative abuse Chronic proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use Increased renal losses Diabetic ketoacidosis Nephrotoxic drugs Postobstructive diuresis Chronic alcoholism Protein–calorie malnutrition Clinical Manifestations of Hypomagnesemia Most patients with hypomagnesemia are asymptomatic, but weakness, fasciculation, paresthesia, confusion, ataxia, and seizures may be encountered. Hypomagnesemia is frequently associated with both hypocalcemia (impaired PTH secretion) and hypokalemia (due to renal K+ wasting). Cardiac manifestations include arrhythmias and potentiation of digoxin toxicity; both are worsened by hypokalemia. Hypomagnesemia is associated with an increased incidence of atrial fibrillation. Prolongation of the P–R and QT intervals may also be present. Treatment of Hypomagnesemia Asymptomatic hypomagnesemia ca

  [5] Morgan & Mikhail p.1899
  Cardiac manifestations include arrhythmias and potentiation of digoxin toxicity; both are worsened by hypokalemia

  [6] Morgan & Mikhail p.607
  Factors that can promote the formation of abnormal impulses include increased catecholamine levels, electrolyte disorders (hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hypercalcemia), ischemia, hypoxia, mechanical stretch, and drug toxicity (particularly digoxin)

  [7] Morgan & Mikhail p.607
  Section: Purkinje tissue. If these after-depolarizations reach threshold potential, they can result. result of either early after-depolarizations (phase 2 or 3) or delayed after- depolarizations (after phase 3). It consists of small-amplitude depolarizations that can follow action potentials under some conditions in atrial, ventricular, and His– Purkinje tissue. If these after-depolarizations reach threshold potential, they can result in an extrasystole or repetitive, sustained tachyarrhythmias. Factors that can promote the formation of abnormal impulses include increased catecholamine levels, electrolyte disorders (hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hypercalcemia), ischemia, hypoxia, mechanical stretch, and drug toxicity (particularly digoxin). The most common mechanism for tachyarrhythmias is reentry. Four conditions are necessary to initiate and sustain reentry (Figure 20–19): (1) two areas i


