=== ITEM 15: Malignant Hyperthermia: Preoperative Screening & Safe Anesthesia ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1512
  text: Section: CHAPTER 44. CHAPTER 44 Ambulatory & Non–Operating Room KEY CONCEPTS Non–operating room anesthesia requires the anesthesia provider to work in remote locations in a hospital, where ease of access to the patient and anesthesia equipment may be limited; furthermore, the support staff at these locations may be unfamiliar with the requirements for safe anesthetic delivery. Anesthesia providers should confirm that both the infrastructure and operational policies are consistent with acceptable anesthesia practice standards before providing anesthesia in such settings. In general, ambulatory 

  chunk 1: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=476
  text: Section: The preoperative evaluation serves multiple purposes. One purpose is to identify. The preoperative evaluation serves multiple purposes. One purpose is to identify those patients whose outcomes likely will be improved by implementation of a specific medical treatment (which rarely may require that planned surgery be rescheduled). For example, a 60-year-old patient scheduled for elective total hip arthroplasty who also has unstable angina from left main coronary artery disease would more likely survive if coronary artery bypass grafting is performed before rather than after the elective

  chunk 2: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1994
  text: Section: This syndrome is considered a separate entity from MH; nevertheless, some. rhabdomyolysis resulting in myoglobinemia, myoglobinuria, and acute kidney failure. Mild forms of NMS promptly resolve after withdrawal of the causative drug (or reinstitution of antiparkinsonian therapy). Initial treatment of more severe forms of NMS should include oxygen therapy and endotracheal intubation for respiratory distress or altered consciousness. Marked muscle rigidity can be controlled with muscle paralysis, dantrolene, or a dopaminergic agonist (amantadine, bromocriptine, levodopa), depending on t

  chunk 3: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1043
  text: Section: Anesthetic Considerations. slowly progressive muscle weakness that may involve the shoulder girdle, the hip girdle, or both. Plasma CK levels are usually elevated. Cardiac involvement is relatively uncommon but may present as frequent arrhythmias or congestive heart failure. Respiratory complications, such as hypoventilation and recurrent respiratory infections, may occur. Anesthetic Considerations A. Duchenne and Becker Muscular Dystrophies The anesthetic management of these patients is complicated not only by muscle weakness but also by cardiac and pulmonary manifestations. An assoc

  chunk 4: book=Stanford CA-1 page=85
  text: Section: Differential Diagnosis. Differential Diagnosis Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome More common in patients receiving antidopaminergic agents or in withdrawal from dopamine agents as in Parkinson’s, usually develops over days rather than minutes to hours Thyroid Storm* Usually associated with hypokalemia fever, tachypnea, tachycardia, metabolic acidosis HR, BP, but normal EtCO2 and Temp e.g. ecstasy, cocaine, amphetamines, PCP, LSD Serotonin Syndrome associated drugs interactions MAOIs + merperidine or MAOIs+ SSRIs Iatrogenic Hyperthermia Hypercarbia from CO2 insufflation for laparoscopy 

  chunk 5: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1460
  text: Section: The most common equipment-related cardiac arrests occurred during attempted. difficult intubation (in decreasing order). In most cases, the laryngospasm occurred during induction. Nearly all patients who experienced arrest in association with airway obstruction or difficult intubation had at least one major underlying disease. The most common equipment-related cardiac arrests occurred during attempted central venous catheterization (eg, pneumothorax, hemothorax, or cardiac tamponade). In recent years, increased scientific interest and public concern have focused on whether general ane

  chunk 6: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1487
  text: Section: Anesthetic Considerations. Anesthetic Considerations Preoperative evaluation may include pulmonary function tests, arterial blood gases, and electrocardiography. Corrective surgery is complicated by prone positioning and the possibility of major blood loss and paraplegia. Spinal cord function can be assessed by neurophysiological monitoring (somatosensory and motor evoked potentials, see Chapters 6 and 26) or by awakening the patient intraoperatively to test lower limb muscle strength. Patients with severe respiratory disease may remain intubated postoperatively. Patients with scolios

  chunk 7: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=268
  text: Section: Contraindications. other volatile anesthetics, is degraded by desiccated CO2 absorbent (particularly barium hydroxide lime, but also sodium and potassium hydroxide) into potentially clinically important levels of carbon monoxide. Carbon monoxide poisoning is difficult to diagnose under general anesthesia, but the presence of carboxyhemoglobin may be detectable by arterial blood gas analysis or lower than expected pulse oximetry readings (though still falsely high). Disposing of dried-out absorbent or use of calcium hydroxide can minimize the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning. Desflura

  chunk 8: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1985
  text: Section: Occasionally, shivering is intense enough to cause hyperthermia (38°C–39°C) and. Occasionally, shivering is intense enough to cause hyperthermia (38°C–39°C) and metabolic acidosis, both of which promptly resolve when the shivering stops. Both spinal and epidural anesthesia lower the shivering threshold and vasoconstrictive response to hypothermia; shivering may also be encountered in the PACU following regional anesthesia. Other causes of shivering should be excluded, such as sepsis, drug allergy, or a transfusion reaction. Intense shivering may increase oxygen consumption, carbon dio

  chunk 9: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1982
  text: Section: Dantrolene, a hydantoin derivative, directly interferes with muscle contraction by. Treatment of an MH episode is directed at terminating the episode and treating complications such as hyperthermia and acidosis. The mortality rate for MH, even with prompt treatment, ranges from 5% to 30%. First and most importantly, the triggering agent must be stopped; second, dantrolene must be given immediately. Dantrolene, a hydantoin derivative, directly interferes with muscle contraction by inhibiting calcium ion release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. The dose is 2.5 mg/kg intravenously every 


=== ITEM 16: Malignant hyperthermia ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=335
  text: Section: Abdominal wall muscle fasciculations increase intragastric pressure, which is offset by. Abdominal wall muscle fasciculations increase intragastric pressure, which is offset by an increase in lower esophageal sphincter tone. Therefore, despite being much discussed, there is no evidence that the risk of gastric reflux or pulmonary aspiration is increased by succinylcholine. F. Intraocular Pressure Elevation Extraocular muscle differs from other striated muscle in that it has multiple motor end- plates on each cell. Prolonged membrane depolarization and contraction of extraocular muscle

  chunk 1: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1989
  text: Section: Intraoperative Considerations. Intraoperative Considerations Treatment of an MH episode is directed at terminating the episode and treating complications such as hyperthermia and acidosis. The mortality rate for MH, even with prompt treatment, ranges from 5% to 30%. Table 52–4 illustrates a standard protocol for the management of MH. TABLE 52–4 Protocol for immediate treatment of malignant hyperthermia. 1. Discontinue volatile anesthetic and succinylcholine. Notify the surgeon. Call for 2. Mix dantrolene sodium with sterile distilled water, and administer 2.5 mg/kg intravenously as so

  chunk 2: book=Stanford CA-1 page=85
  text: Section: Differential Diagnosis. Differential Diagnosis Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome More common in patients receiving antidopaminergic agents or in withdrawal from dopamine agents as in Parkinson’s, usually develops over days rather than minutes to hours Thyroid Storm* Usually associated with hypokalemia fever, tachypnea, tachycardia, metabolic acidosis HR, BP, but normal EtCO2 and Temp e.g. ecstasy, cocaine, amphetamines, PCP, LSD Serotonin Syndrome associated drugs interactions MAOIs + merperidine or MAOIs+ SSRIs Iatrogenic Hyperthermia Hypercarbia from CO2 insufflation for laparoscopy 

  chunk 3: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1994
  text: Section: This syndrome is considered a separate entity from MH; nevertheless, some. rhabdomyolysis resulting in myoglobinemia, myoglobinuria, and acute kidney failure. Mild forms of NMS promptly resolve after withdrawal of the causative drug (or reinstitution of antiparkinsonian therapy). Initial treatment of more severe forms of NMS should include oxygen therapy and endotracheal intubation for respiratory distress or altered consciousness. Marked muscle rigidity can be controlled with muscle paralysis, dantrolene, or a dopaminergic agonist (amantadine, bromocriptine, levodopa), depending on t

  chunk 4: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1458
  text: Section: Children are more susceptible than adults to cardiac arrhythmias,. biotransformation and reliably behave as intermediate-acting muscle relaxants. Children are more susceptible than adults to cardiac arrhythmias, hyperkalemia, rhabdomyolysis, myoglobinemia, masseter spasm, and malignant hyperthermia (see Chapter 52) associated with succinylcholine. When a child experiences cardiac arrest following administration of succinylcholine, immediate treatment for hyperkalemia should be instituted. Prolonged resuscitative efforts (potentially including cardiopulmonary bypass) may be required. T

  chunk 5: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=268
  text: Section: Contraindications. other volatile anesthetics, is degraded by desiccated CO2 absorbent (particularly barium hydroxide lime, but also sodium and potassium hydroxide) into potentially clinically important levels of carbon monoxide. Carbon monoxide poisoning is difficult to diagnose under general anesthesia, but the presence of carboxyhemoglobin may be detectable by arterial blood gas analysis or lower than expected pulse oximetry readings (though still falsely high). Disposing of dried-out absorbent or use of calcium hydroxide can minimize the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning. Desflura

  chunk 6: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1985
  text: Section: Occasionally, shivering is intense enough to cause hyperthermia (38°C–39°C) and. Occasionally, shivering is intense enough to cause hyperthermia (38°C–39°C) and metabolic acidosis, both of which promptly resolve when the shivering stops. Both spinal and epidural anesthesia lower the shivering threshold and vasoconstrictive response to hypothermia; shivering may also be encountered in the PACU following regional anesthesia. Other causes of shivering should be excluded, such as sepsis, drug allergy, or a transfusion reaction. Intense shivering may increase oxygen consumption, carbon dio

  chunk 7: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1990
  text: Section: After initial control of symptoms, 1 mg/kg of dantrolene intravenously is. threatening situation. Dantrolene interferes with muscle contraction by binding the Ryr1 receptor channel and inhibiting calcium ion release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. The dose is 2.5 mg/kg intravenously every 5 min until the episode is terminated (upper limit, 10 mg/kg). “Conventional” dantrolene is packaged as 20 mg of lyophilized powder to be dissolved in 60 mL of sterile water, and thus reconstitution of the initial dose can be unavoidably time consuming. A new, more costly formulation is available in

  chunk 8: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1043
  text: Section: Anesthetic Considerations. slowly progressive muscle weakness that may involve the shoulder girdle, the hip girdle, or both. Plasma CK levels are usually elevated. Cardiac involvement is relatively uncommon but may present as frequent arrhythmias or congestive heart failure. Respiratory complications, such as hypoventilation and recurrent respiratory infections, may occur. Anesthetic Considerations A. Duchenne and Becker Muscular Dystrophies The anesthetic management of these patients is complicated not only by muscle weakness but also by cardiac and pulmonary manifestations. An assoc

  chunk 9: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1986
  text: Section: Pathophysiology. A halogenated anesthetic agent alone may trigger an episode of MH (Table 52–2). In many of the early reported cases, both succinylcholine and a halogenated anesthetic agent were used, and so-called masseter muscle rigidity was observed. However, succinylcholine is less frequently used in modern practice, and about half of the cases in the past decade were associated with a volatile anesthetic as the only triggering agent. Whether succinylcholine is a trigger in the absence of a volatile agent is now controversial. Nearly 50% of patients who experience an episode of MH


=== ITEM 17: Malignant hyperthermia (MH) — recognition and management ===
  chunk 0: book=Stanford CA-1 page=85
  text: Section: Differential Diagnosis. Differential Diagnosis Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome More common in patients receiving antidopaminergic agents or in withdrawal from dopamine agents as in Parkinson’s, usually develops over days rather than minutes to hours Thyroid Storm* Usually associated with hypokalemia fever, tachypnea, tachycardia, metabolic acidosis HR, BP, but normal EtCO2 and Temp e.g. ecstasy, cocaine, amphetamines, PCP, LSD Serotonin Syndrome associated drugs interactions MAOIs + merperidine or MAOIs+ SSRIs Iatrogenic Hyperthermia Hypercarbia from CO2 insufflation for laparoscopy 

  chunk 1: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1989
  text: Section: Intraoperative Considerations. Intraoperative Considerations Treatment of an MH episode is directed at terminating the episode and treating complications such as hyperthermia and acidosis. The mortality rate for MH, even with prompt treatment, ranges from 5% to 30%. Table 52–4 illustrates a standard protocol for the management of MH. TABLE 52–4 Protocol for immediate treatment of malignant hyperthermia. 1. Discontinue volatile anesthetic and succinylcholine. Notify the surgeon. Call for 2. Mix dantrolene sodium with sterile distilled water, and administer 2.5 mg/kg intravenously as so

  chunk 2: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1227
  text: Section: Recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy produces hoarseness (unilateral) or aphonia and stridor. aggressive management and monitoring (see Case Discussion, Chapter 56). The onset is usually 6 to 24 h after surgery, but it can occur intraoperatively, mimicking malignant hyperthermia. Unlike malignant hyperthermia, thyroid storm is not associated with muscle rigidity, elevated creatine kinase, or marked metabolic (lactic) and respiratory acidosis. Treatment includes hydration and cooling, an intravenous β-blocker (typically an esmolol infusion with a target heart rate <100/min), propylthiouraci

  chunk 3: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1017
  text: Section: The most commonly used antipsychotics include phenothiazines, thioxanthenes,. need to be excluded. Schizophrenia is thought to result from an excess of dopaminergic activity in the brain. The most commonly used antipsychotics include phenothiazines, thioxanthenes, phenylbutylpiperidines, dihydroindolones, dibenzapines, benzisoxazoles, and butyrophenones. There are numerous trade names for these drugs. First-generation antipsychotic medications had strong dopamine antagonistic effects, leading to extrapyramidal side effects (eg, muscle rigidity and progression to tardive dyskinesia). S

  chunk 4: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1025
  text: Section: Anesthetic management in patients with periodic paralysis is directed toward. dystrophies because of unpredictable response and the risk of inducing severe hyperkalemia or triggering malignant hyperthermia. Anesthetic management in patients with periodic paralysis is directed toward preventing attacks. Perioperative management must include frequent determinations of plasma potassium concentration and correction of abnormal values, with careful electrocardiographic monitoring to detect arrhythmias. In patients with periodic paralysis, the response to NMBs is unpredictable, and neuromus

  chunk 5: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1043
  text: Section: Anesthetic Considerations. slowly progressive muscle weakness that may involve the shoulder girdle, the hip girdle, or both. Plasma CK levels are usually elevated. Cardiac involvement is relatively uncommon but may present as frequent arrhythmias or congestive heart failure. Respiratory complications, such as hypoventilation and recurrent respiratory infections, may occur. Anesthetic Considerations A. Duchenne and Becker Muscular Dystrophies The anesthetic management of these patients is complicated not only by muscle weakness but also by cardiac and pulmonary manifestations. An assoc

  chunk 6: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1523
  text: Section: An external defibrillator should always be available whenever the ICD’s. An external defibrillator should always be available whenever the ICD’s antitachycardia features are suspended. Glucose Control In a consensus statement on perioperative glucose control, the Society for Ambulatory Anesthesia found insufficient evidence to make strong recommendations about glucose management in ambulatory patients, and thus management suggestions parallel those of the inpatient population with a target intraoperative blood glucose concentration of less than 180 mg/dL. Malignant Hyperthermia Patien

  chunk 7: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1045
  text: Section: Paramyotonia congenita is a very rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized. Paramyotonia congenita is a very rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by transient stiffness (myotonia) and, occasionally, weakness after exposure to cold temperatures. The stiffness worsens with activity in contrast to true myotonia, thus the term paramyotonia. Serum potassium concentration may rise following an attack similar to hyperkalemic periodic paralysis (discussed next). Medications that have been used to block the cold response include mexiletine and tocainide. Anesthetic management of

  chunk 8: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=86
  text: Section: What should be considered in the differential diagnosis of this patient’s. hernia repair. After uneventful induction of general anesthesia and tracheal intubation, the patient is placed on a ventilator set to deliver a tidal volume of 6 mL/kg at a rate of 16 breaths/min. Despite the delivery of high concentrations of sevoflurane in 50% oxygen in air, tachycardia (145 beats/min) and mild hypertension (144/94 mm Hg) are noted. Fentanyl (3 mcg/kg) is administered to increase anesthetic depth. Heart rate and blood pressure continue to rise and are accompanied by frequent premature ventric

  chunk 9: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1985
  text: Section: Occasionally, shivering is intense enough to cause hyperthermia (38°C–39°C) and. Occasionally, shivering is intense enough to cause hyperthermia (38°C–39°C) and metabolic acidosis, both of which promptly resolve when the shivering stops. Both spinal and epidural anesthesia lower the shivering threshold and vasoconstrictive response to hypothermia; shivering may also be encountered in the PACU following regional anesthesia. Other causes of shivering should be excluded, such as sepsis, drug allergy, or a transfusion reaction. Intense shivering may increase oxygen consumption, carbon dio


=== ITEM 18: Massive Hemorrhage: Transfusion Complications ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1332
  text: Section: Massive Transfusion Protocols. blood banks now accept plasma and platelet donations only from males or from females who have either never been pregnant or who have been tested and found to be anti-HLA negative. The greatest transfusion risk patients now face during trauma resuscitation is transfusion-associated circulatory overload (TACO), which occurs when blood products are administered at a rate greater than the patient’s cardiac output. This is most likely to occur when the provider administering blood products has not recognized that the source of bleeding has been successfully c

  chunk 1: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1965
  text: Section: Transfusion-Associated Circulatory Overload. and found to be anti-HLA negative (see Chapter 39). Transfusion-Associated Circulatory Overload Transfusion-associated circulatory overload (TACO) occurs when blood products are administered at an excessive rate, usually in a massive hemorrhage resuscitation scenario. This is most likely to occur when the provider continues to administer blood products without recognizing that the source of bleeding has been controlled. Communication between the team members resuscitating the patient with blood products and those attempting to control the h

  chunk 2: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1471
  text: Section: One popular fluid administration guideline is 0 to 2 mL/kg/h for relatively. accompany rapid blood transfusion. Dosing of packed red blood cell transfusions is discussed in Chapter 51. Platelets and fresh frozen plasma, 10 to 15 mL/kg, should be given when blood loss exceeds one to two blood volumes. Recent practice, particularly with blood loss from trauma, favors “earlier” administration of plasma and platelets as part of a massive transfusion protocol. One unit of platelets per 10 kg weight raises the platelet count by about 50,000/μL. The pediatric dose of cryoprecipitate is 1 uni

  chunk 3: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=2231
  text: Section: Blood glucose, 760. patient history, 1214 physical examination, 1214 Blood glucose, 760 Blood groups, 1221–1222 ABO system, 1221–1222 red blood cell antigen systems, 1222 Rh system, 1222 Blood pressure, arterial immediate control, 366–367 intermediate control, 367 long-term control, 367 monitoring of, 75–85, 76f, 77f cannulation in complications of, 83 of radial artery, 81–83, 82f selection of artery for, 81 clinical considerations in, 83–85 indications and contraindications for, 81–83 invasive, 81–85 noninvasive, 76–80 arterial tonometry in, 79f, 79–80 auscultation in, 77–78 automati

  chunk 4: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1282
  text: Section: D. Transfusion. hydralazine) should be avoided to minimize any decrease in graft perfusion pressure. D. Transfusion Transfusion decisions must balance the patient’s immediate surgical risks with the possibility of an increased cancer recurrence rate resulting from transfusion-induced immune suppression. Rheological factors make a moderately low hematocrit (eg, 27– 30%) desirable when microvascular free flaps are performed. Excessive diuresis should be avoided during microvascular free-flap surgery to optimize graft perfusion in the postoperative period. E. Cardiovascular Instability M

  chunk 5: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1139
  text: Section: Radical retropubic prostatectomy may be accompanied by sufficient operative. with the seminal vesicles, ejaculatory ducts, and part of the bladder neck. A “nerve- sparing” technique may be used for smaller, well-defined lesions with the intention of preserving sexual function. Following prostatectomy, the remaining bladder neck is anastomosed directly to the urethra over an indwelling urinary catheter. The surgeon may ask for intravenous administration of indigo carmine for visualization of the ureters, and this dye can be associated with hypertension or hypotension. Radical retropubi

  chunk 6: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1979
  text: Section: Nederpelt CJ, Hechi EI, Kongkaewpaisan N, et al. Fresh frozen plasma-to-packed red. Academy (IFA). Ann Intens Care. 2020;10:64. McSorley ST, Tham A, Dolan RD, et al. Perioperative blood transfusion is associated with postoperative systemic inflammatory response and poorer outcomes following surgery for colorectal cancer. Ann Surg Oncol. 2020;27:833. Meneses E, Boneva D, McKenney M, Elkbuli A. Massive transfusion protocol in adult trauma population. Am J Emerg Med. 2020;38:2661. Meyhoff TS, Møller MH, Hjortrup PB, et al. Lower vs higher fluid volumes during initial management of sepsis

  chunk 7: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1420
  text: Section: Pathophysiology & Manifestations. preeclampsia complicates approximately 7% to 10% of pregnancies; eclampsia is much less common, occurring in 1 of 10,000 to 15,000 pregnancies. Severe preeclampsia causes or contributes to 7% of maternal deaths and approximately 20% of perinatal deaths. Maternal deaths are usually due to stroke, pulmonary edema, hepatic necrosis or rupture, or a combination of these complications. Pathophysiology & Manifestations The pathophysiology of preeclampsia is related to vascular dysfunction of the placenta, resulting in abnormal prostaglandin metabolism. Pati

  chunk 8: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1174
  text: Section: Prehepatic (increased bilirubin production). Prehepatic (increased bilirubin production) Resorption of hematomas Hemolytic anemia transfusion Senescent red cell breakdown Hemolytic reactions Hepatic (hepatocellular dysfunction) Preexisting liver disease Ischemic or hypoxemic injury Gilbert syndrome Intrahepatic cholestasis Posthepatic (biliary obstruction) Postoperative cholecystitis Postoperative pancreatitis Retained common bile duct stone Bile duct injury Hepatic Cirrhosis Liver cirrhosis may result in portal hypertension, bleeding varices, and major organ dysfunction. The major ca

  chunk 9: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=777
  text: Section: Excessive intraoperative bleeding may occur during these procedures. Prophylaxis. infusion is often needed to prevent excessive increases in blood pressure. In patients with good ventricular function, increasing anesthetic depth just prior to cross-clamping may also be helpful. Excessive intraoperative bleeding may occur during these procedures. Prophylaxis with antifibrinolytic agents may be helpful. A blood scavenging device (cell saver) for autotransfusion is routinely used. Adequate venous access and intraoperative monitoring are critical. Multiple large-bore (14-gauge) intravenou


=== ITEM 19: Massive hemoptysis and pulmonary hemorrhage ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=916
  text: Section: Hemoptysis and infarction can rapidly follow. The diagnosis is suggested by an. lung on the operative side expands to occupy the hemithorax. The torsion usually occludes the pulmonary vein to that part of the lung, causing venous outflow obstruction. Hemoptysis and infarction can rapidly follow. The diagnosis is suggested by an enlarging homogeneous density on the chest radiograph and a closed lobar orifice on bronchoscopy. Acute herniation of the heart into the operative hemithorax can occur through the pericardial defect that may remain following a pneumonectomy. A large pressure di

  chunk 1: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=916
  text: SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR PATIENTS UNDERGOING LUNG RESECTION Massive Pulmonary Hemorrhage Massive hemoptysis is usually defined as more than 500 to 600 mL of blood loss from the tracheobronchial tree within 24 h

  chunk 2: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=162
  text: Section: Care. Philadelphia, PA: Butterworth Heinemann; 1994.). superior vena cava. (Reproduced with permission from Soni N. Practical Procedures in Anaesthesia and Intensive Care. Philadelphia, PA: Butterworth Heinemann; 1994.) The balloon should be deflated and the catheter withdrawn if pressure changes do not occur at the expected distances to prevent catheter knotting. Occasionally, the insertion may require fluoroscopy or TEE for guidance. After the catheter tip enters the PA, minimal additional advancement results in a pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (PAOP) waveform. The PA tracing s

  chunk 3: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=726
  text: Section: Section V THE RECOVERY PERIOD. Section V THE RECOVERY PERIOD Decreased Alveolar Partial Pressure of Oxygen Diffusion hypoxia refers to the rapid diffusion of nitrous oxide into alveoli at the end of a nitrous oxide anesthetic (also see Chapter 7). Nitrous oxide dilutes the alveolar gas and produces a transient decrease in Pao2 and Paco2. In a patient breathing room air the resulting decrease in Pao2 can produce arterial hypoxemia, whereas a decreased Paco2 can depress the respiratory drive. In the absence of supplemental oxygen administration diffusion hypoxia can persist for 5 to 10 

  chunk 4: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Pulmonary Vasculitis and Hemorrhage page=3
  text: Section: Ches. tive foramen ovale or a significantly small PFO, in conjunction with hsPDA, are more likely to develop pulmonary hemorrhage. An unrestricted PFO helps offload the increased volume in the left atrium caused by hsPDA, distributing the excess volume to both ventricles. This prevents stress failure of the left atrium and left ventricle, as well as the rupture of fragile pulmonary capillaries due to pulmonary venous congestion. In contrast, in newborns with a restrictive foramen ovale and hsPDA, a rapid decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance after birth leads to high-volume left-t

  chunk 5: book=MGH Housestaff Manual page=56
  text: Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care Pulmonary Hypertension Matthew Adan D I A G N O S I S (ERJ 2019;53:1801904) • RHC: gold standard (may not be needed in all circumstances) ± iNO vasoreactivity testing (+ response = mPAP ≥10 mmHg to reach mPAP ≤40 mmHg w/  or = CO; guides treatment in idiopathic PH) • Evaluation for etiology: o TTE: eval for left HF (& whether severity explains PH) o RUQUS: Assess for portopulm HTN, portocaval shunt o PFTs, DLD-CT, polysomnography: chronic lung disease, OSA o CPET: determine etiology of exercise intolerance (cardiac vs pulmonary/PA

  chunk 6: book=MGH Housestaff Manual page=52
  text: Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care Bronchiectasis & Hemoptysis Dan Fulop B R ON C H I E C T A S I S (permanent airway dilatation from recurrent infxn/inflammation) (AJRCCM 2013;188:647; NEJM 2022;387:533) Symptoms Chronic productive cough, recurrent bronchitis/pneumonia, wheezing, dyspnea, hemoptysis, recurrent pleurisy Recurrent insult: infection (PNA, MAC, TB, PsA, childhood infections, ABPA), inhalation, GERD/aspiration Impaired immunity: mucus clearance (CF, 1° ciliary dyskinesia [PCD]), immunodeficiency (e.g., HIV, CVID, IgG) Obstruction: foreign body, tumor, 

  chunk 7: book=MGH Housestaff Manual page=46
  text: Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care Respiratory Distress Cassandra Fiorino Respiratory distress is a constellation of symptoms that portends impending respiratory collapse. It is different from dyspnea, which is the subjective sensation of shortness of breath. Key symptoms of respiratory distress are: Tachypnea (go look at the patient and measure yourself. RR ≥20) Cyanosis (typically SpO2 <80%) ↑WOB (nose flaring, retractions, grunting, tripod-ing, diaphoresis) Obstruction (wheezing, stridor) A P P R OA C H Confirm code status Low threshold to call Rapid Response for 

  chunk 8: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) page=5
  text: Section: Pulmonary Manifestations. resence of immune complex deposits in the glomeruli may be associated with more severe systemic signs and symptoms. Please see StatPearls' companion resource, " Rapidly Progressive Glomerulonephritis ," for more information. Patients with MPA may present with constitutional symptoms, including insidious onset fever, arthralgia, myalgia, and weight loss. Other manifestations include urinary abnormalities, cough with or without hemoptysis, skin examination findings consistent with palpable purpura, mononeuritis multiplex, seizures, other nonspecific neurologica

  chunk 9: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA Wegener) page=5
  text: Section: GPA typically presents with a triad of symptoms as follows:. is in the lungs with profuse eosinophils and multinucleated giant cells. Necrotizing or granulomatous vasculitis is found in small arteries and veins, and the lumens can be occluded by granulomas or thrombi. [20] Given the patchy involvement of GPA, targeted lung biopsy is recommended rather than biopsy without correlation to imaging. CT scans and 18-F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission/CT scans can also be used to identify active lesions to increase the biopsy yield. Avoiding necrotic areas is also preferable. [20] Light 


=== ITEM 20: Mechanical Ventilation Modes and Settings ===
  chunk 0: book=Stanford CA-1 page=89
  text: Section: OR Setup. OR Setup • Setup: • Make sure BP cuff is set to cycle automatically Q1min for induction • Add or remove waveforms to your monitor if needed for Art line, CVP, • You can route video from the Cmac in each 500p OR to the room monitors for intubation Monitor Tips Perfusion index is the ratio of pulsatile to non-pulsatile flow. If low, may indicate poor perfusion Use this icon to troubleshoot monitor/cable setup PVI (or PPV if using an A line) can be used as a surrogate marker of volume status If your monitor does not automatically transfer vitals to Epic record, you can manually

  chunk 1: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=769
  text: Section: Chapter 41 Critical Care Medicine. Chapter 41 Critical Care Medicine type of ventilation, which may include PEEP, respiratory rate (f), FiO2, flow rate, inspiratory:expiratory ratio, and limit/alarm settings (Table 41.4). Hybrid modes of mechanical ventilation, which allow for control of more than one parameter at the same time, also exist. These modes are typically given proprietary names by ventilator manufacturers. A combined mode that targets both pressure and volume (known as pres- sure-regulated volume control [PRVC] or pressure control ventilation-volume guaranteed [PCV-VG] by 

  chunk 2: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=380
  text: Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT peak airway pressure can also be caused by decreases in lung or chest wall compliance. If peak airway pressure is increased and simultaneously positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) is increased, this may signify a tension pneumothorax, especially if associated with arterial hypotension. In this circumstance the hypotension is caused by high intrathoracic pressure impeding venous return. The mechanical ventilator can be set to produce a brief pause at

  chunk 3: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Mechanical Ventilation  Modes and Settings page=1
  text: Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK572110 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK572110/ Topic: Mechanical Ventilation: Modes and Settings Article Title: Mechanical Ventilation and Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation Considerations in COVID-19 License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Mechanical Ventilation and Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation Considerations in COVID-19 An

  chunk 4: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Mechanical Ventilation  Modes and Settings page=2
  text: Section: Anatomy and Physiology. ical ventilation, as well as advanced rescue therapy in the form of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Anatomy and Physiology The SARS-CoV-2 virus is a single-stranded RNA virus belonging to the Betacoronavirus genus and consists of four major structural proteins identified in the pathogenesis of COVID-19 disease. [1] The spike protein (S) is considered the main structural protein that protrudes from the viral surface and gives it a “corona-like" appearance. The S protein binds to the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE 2) receptors of the human cells

  chunk 5: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=271
  text: Section: Chapter 15 Anesthesia Delivery Systems. Chapter 15 Anesthesia Delivery Systems around a turbine mechanical ventilator.16 The major advantage of the turbine is that it can be placed directly within the circle system. Unlike piston-driven ventila- tion, the turbine is primarily a pressure generator. The ventilator uses flow sensors and electronic controls to generate a number of modes of mechanical ventilation, including volume and pressure control, pressure support, and airway pressure release ventilation. Target-Controlled Inhalational Anesthesia Traditionally, anesthesia providers di

  chunk 6: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Mechanical Ventilation  Modes and Settings page=13
  text: Section: Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes. medications aimed at the innate and adaptive immune system that leads to an overt immune response and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α that may potentiate lung injury and diffuse alveolar damage. Medications like corticosteroids and Baricitinib can be utilized to avoid worsening and decrease oxygen requirements. The parameters of ARDS severity as defined by the Berlin criterion should be utilized to gauge the severity of the disease. When a patient has failed noninvasive therapy and meets the criteria for mechanic

  chunk 7: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Mechanical Ventilation  Modes and Settings page=7
  text: Section: Physicians (intensivist/surgeon). ased approach is highly effective in patients who are mechanically ventilated or are on ECMO. The team members include but are not limited to: Physicians (intensivist/surgeon) Advance practice providers Critical care trained nurse Respiratory therapist Critical care pharmacist Physical/occupational therapist To prepare for endotracheal intubation and IMV, closed-loop communication between team members is required. A time-out should be conducted to review patient details, consent, and anticipated approach to intubation unless a life-threatening emergen

  chunk 8: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Mechanical Ventilation  Modes and Settings page=10
  text: vo-atrial junction and the return cannula either placed in the internal jugular vein near the superior cavoatrial junction or contralateral femoral vein. Dual-lumen catheters should be avoided as they require specialized settings like fluoroscopic guidance or echocardiographic guidance, leading to longer cannulation times and are more prone to mispositioning, requiring specialized image guidance like TEE or fluoroscopy for repositioning. [41] A dual-lumen atrio-pulmonary catheter can be used with an oxygenator if skills and expertise are available in patients with right ventricular dysfunction

  chunk 9: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Noninvasive Ventilation (NIV) page=6
  text: Section: Titration of N oninvasive Positive Pressure Ventilation in Chronic Settings. ld be discharged on NIPPV until outpatient diagnostic polysomnography and laboratory positive airway pressure (PAP) titration are completed. BiPAP S/T mode may be applied in the interim using empiric settings or autotitrating NIPPV modes, such as volume-assured pressure support (VAPS) with auto-EPAP (VAPS-AE), which adjusts EPAP to maintain upper airway patency in patients with OSA. Monitoring in the acute setting requires evaluation of both subjective and physiologic patient responses. Caution is necessary w


=== ITEM 21: Neuromuscular Monitoring: Principles ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=220
  text: Section: GUIDELINES. American Society of Anesthesiologists Standards for Basic Anesthetic Monitoring. SUGGESTED READINGS Avidan M, Zhang L, Burnside B, et al. Anesthesia awareness and bispectral index. New Eng J Med. 2008;358:1097. Bergeron EJ, Mosca MS, Aftab M, Justison G, Reece TB. Neuroprotection strategies in aortic surgery. Cardiol Clin. 2017;35:453. Brull SJ, Kopman AF. Current status of neuromuscular reversal and monitoring: challenges and opportunities. Anesthesiology. 2017;126:173. Chan ED, Chan MM, Chan MM. Pulse oximetry: understanding its basic principles facilitates appreciation 

  chunk 1: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=5
  text: Section: Chapter Authors. Chapter Authors Past Contributors 1 The Practice of Anesthesiology SECTION I Anesthetic Equipment & Monitors 2 The Operating Room Environment 3 Breathing Systems 4 The Anesthesia Workstation 5 Cardiovascular Monitoring 6 Noncardiovascular Monitoring SECTION II Clinical Pharmacology 7 Pharmacological Principles 8 Inhalation Anesthetics 9 Intravenous Anesthetics 10 Analgesic Agents 11 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents 12 Cholinesterase Inhibitors & Other Pharmacological Antagonists to Neuromuscular Blocking Agents

  chunk 2: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=995
  text: Section: What modifications, if any, are necessary in the anesthetic technique?. Monitoring should be carried out in somewhat the same way as for craniotomies. Visual evoked potentials may be employed with large tumors that involve the optic nerves. Precordial Doppler sonography may be used for detecting venous air embolism. Venous access with large-bore catheters is desirable in the event of massive hemorrhage. What modifications, if any, are necessary in the anesthetic technique? The same principles discussed for craniotomies apply; however, patients rarely have evidence of increased ICP. In

  chunk 3: book=Stanford CA-1 page=12
  text: Section: CA1 Orientation Lectures. CA1 Orientation Lectures 4:00 PM ASA Monitoring | Dr. Richard Jaffe 4:00 PM Basic Anesthesia Machines | Dr. Richard Jaffe Central Line Placement Workshop | Dr. Mihm TBD 4:00 PM Respiratory Physiology | Dr. Javier Lorenzo 5:00 PM Chief Resident Rounds 1 4:00 PM Principles of Pharmacology | Dr. Steve Shafer 5:00 PM Chief Resident Rounds 2 4:00 PM Pharmacology of Neuromuscular Blockade | Dr. Amit 5:00 PM Chief Resident Rounds 3 4:00 PM The Drugs in the Drawer | Dr. Boris Heifets 5:00 PM Chief Resident Rounds 4 4:00 PM Positioning and Associated Risks | Dr. David

  chunk 4: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=375
  text: Section: Anesthesiologists have long been at the forefront of. Anesthesiologists have long been at the forefront of patient monitoring. This has been of necessity because we are responsible for continuously assessing the patient's physiologic status and the effects of surgery and anesthetic agents. This chapter provides an intro- duction to the basic function and utility of the wide array of monitors employed in modern anesthesia care. Monitoring devices will be organized by organ system, not by physical property or technique on which that monitor derives its information. A detailed review of 

  chunk 5: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=934
  text: Section: Pediatric airway, 620. Pediatric airway, 620 Pediatric cardiac arrest algorithm, 821f Pediatric trauma, 788, 789b Pediatrics, injuries in, 789b PEEP. See Positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), 687–688 Performance orientation, versus learning orientation, 16 Perfusion, inadequate, monitoring for, Periodic breathing, 67 Perioperative bleeding, 430 Perioperative eye injury, visual loss and, 348 Perioperative uid, strategies, 442, Perioperative Ischemia Research Group, β-blockade study, 78 Perioperative management, dexmedetomidine infusions for,

  chunk 6: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=939
  text: Section: Seizure, activity, suppression, 118. Seizure, activity, suppression, 118 Selective α-adrenergic receptor agonists, 76 Selective preoperative tests, 209–210, Selective relaxant binding agents, 180 Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), 419 Selective spinal anesthesia, 304 Self-inating manual resuscitators, 244, 244f Sellick maneuver, 267, 268f Sentinel events, 836b, 836 Sepsis, 739 Septic shock, 739 Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA), 736 Serotonin release assay (SRA), 423 Serum creatinine, 501 concentration of, 501 Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SA

  chunk 7: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=736
  text: Section: Section V THE RECOVERY PERIOD. Section V THE RECOVERY PERIOD agitation in children is between 2 and 4 years. Unlike delirium, emergence agitation typically resolves quickly and is followed by uneventful recovery. In contrast to children, the incidence of emergence agitation in adults is estimated to only be between 3% and 5%. In children emergence agitation is most frequently associated with rapid “wake up” from inhalational anesthesia. Other possi- ble etiologic factors include intrinsic characteristics of the anesthetic, postoperative pain, type of surgery, age, pre- operative anxie

  chunk 8: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=809
  text: Section: Chapter 43 Anesthesia for Trauma. Chapter 43 Anesthesia for Trauma year, and over 200,000 people currently live with SCI.29 The most common causes of injury are motor vehicle accidents, falls, and assault. The presentation of SCI depends largely on the extent, severity, and level at which injury occurs. An injury may be described as “complete” if the patient has no motor or sensory function below the level of injury. Incomplete SCIs describe partial injury to the cord that results in varying degrees of residual sensory and motor function. The American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) 

  chunk 9: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=808
  text: Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE are usually related to a deteriorating GCS score—usually 8 or less—or other concurrent injuries. Nasal airways (and nasogastric tubes) should be avoided if possible in TBI patients with facial or suspected skull base fractures because of the risk of intracranial insertion. Other indi- cations for intubating the trachea of TBI patients include signs of intracranial hypertension or uncontrollable seizure activity. Securing the airway should always be considered before transport if the patient's mental s


=== ITEM 22: Neuromuscular diseases in children ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1233
  text: Section: Neuromuscular irritability (eg, laryngospasm, inspiratory stridor, tetany,. Neuromuscular irritability (eg, laryngospasm, inspiratory stridor, tetany, Perioral paresthesia Mental status changes (eg, dementia, depression, psychosis) 1ECG, electrocardiogram. Mild hypocalcemia is common following cardiopulmonary bypass or infusion of albumin solutions. In many adult patients, this need not be treated because the response of the PTH–vitamin D axis will usually be sufficient to restore ionized calcium to normal values and mild hypocalcemia will usually have no hemodynamic consequences. Ane

  chunk 1: book=Stanford CA-1 page=37
  text: Section: Blocking Agents. Blocking Agents NMBAs facilitate intubation, mechanical ventilation, and surgical relaxation There are two categories of NMBAs with distinct properties: Depolarizing (succinylcholine) Non-depolarizing (eg. rocuronium, vecuronium, cisatracurium) Postoperative residual paralysis occurs frequently. Monitoring of neuromuscular blockade and pharmacological reversal are standard of care. NMBAs should be used carefully; there are also many surgical and patient-specific contraindications. Neuromuscular blocking agents play a prominent role in the incidence of adverse reaction

  chunk 2: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=647
  text: Section: Chapter 34 Pediatrics. Chapter 34 Pediatrics physiologic changes in the parent, including syncope. The temperament of both the child and the parent should be considered before the suggestion of PPIA.28 A recent Cochrane review of nonpharmacologic interventions for assisting anesthetic induction in children concluded that PPIA is not useful. Other nonpharmacologic techniques, including low-sensory stimulation environment, hand- held video games, and behavioral intervention, are more likely to reduce anxiety and improve patient cooperation during induction of anesthesia.29 Perioperative

  chunk 3: book=Stanford CA-1 page=58
  text: Section: Electrolyte Abnormalities. Electrolyte Abnormalities Cardiac Action Potentials Phase Name SA Node Fiber Ventricular Muscle Fiber Rapid Upstroke Slow inward ICa Fast inward INa Early Rapid Repolarization Inactivation of INa Start Outward IK Outward IK = Slow Inward ICa Final Rapid Repolarization Outward IK Outward IK > Inward ICa Diastolic Depolarization/ Resting Potential Slow inward ICa Slow inward INa Outward IK (minimal) Outward IK – Mild K+ = 5.5-6.5 mEq/L – Moderate K+ = 6.6-7.5 mEq/L – Severe K+ > 7.5 mEq/L Contributing Factors – Renal disease (esp GFR <15) – Drugs (ACEI/ARBs, N

  chunk 4: book=Stanford CA-1 page=69
  text: Section: Extubation Criteria. Extubation Criteria Delayed Emergence Extubation Overview 12% of the closed claim cases with perioperative difficult airway were from the time of extubation ASA Practice Guidelines for Management of the Difficult Airway: has not decreased the number of claims arising from injury at extubation Incidence of respiratory complications may be higher with extubation than intubation. – Most common complications with extubation: coughing, difficult ventilation through facemask, desaturations. Extubations are almost always elective with adequate time to methodically plan, 

  chunk 5: book=Stanford CA-1 page=54
  text: Section: Causes of Hypoxemia. Causes of Hypoxemia A-a Gradient Corrects w/ Low inspired O2 Diffusion Impairment V/Q Mismatch Normal /  Shunt: perfusion without ventilaton (V/Q=0); see ↓pO2. No increase in pCO2 (2/2 chemoreceptor mediated hyperventilation) until shunt fraction50% Dead Space: ventilation without perfusion (V/Q=∞); see ↑pCO2 Alveolar Gas Equation PAO2 = FiO2 (Patm - PH2O) - (PaCO2 / 0.8) = 0.21 (760 - 47) - (40 / 0.8) ≈ 100 mm Hg Alveolar-arterial (A-a) Gradient P(A-a)O2 = PAO2 - PaO2 Normal A-a Gradient: • < 10 mm Hg (FiO2 = 0.21) • < 60 mm Hg (FiO2 = 1.00) • < (age / 4) + 4 •

  chunk 6: book=Stanford CA-1 page=85
  text: Section: Differential Diagnosis. Differential Diagnosis Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome More common in patients receiving antidopaminergic agents or in withdrawal from dopamine agents as in Parkinson’s, usually develops over days rather than minutes to hours Thyroid Storm* Usually associated with hypokalemia fever, tachypnea, tachycardia, metabolic acidosis HR, BP, but normal EtCO2 and Temp e.g. ecstasy, cocaine, amphetamines, PCP, LSD Serotonin Syndrome associated drugs interactions MAOIs + merperidine or MAOIs+ SSRIs Iatrogenic Hyperthermia Hypercarbia from CO2 insufflation for laparoscopy 

  chunk 7: book=Stanford CA-1 page=26
  text: Section: True or False regarding propofol:. True or False regarding propofol: ➢Propofol can produce bronchodilation in patients with COPD. ➢Propofol inhibits pulmonary vasoconstriction. ➢Premedication does not affect the speed to apnea after administration of propofol. ➢Propofol produces depression of central respiratory drive that is does-independent. Answer: T, F, F, T ITE tip High incidence of pain on injection Induction dose 0.2-0.3 mg/kg Rapid onset due to high lipid solubility and large non-ionized fraction at physiologic pH Myoclonus, hiccups, thrombophlebitis Decreases CMRO2, CBF, ICP;

  chunk 8: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=304
  text: Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT whether the thyromental distance is short and whether the patient has micrognathia or a hypoplastic mandible. The parent(s) and the child should be directly asked whether there are any loose teeth. If loose teeth are identified, care should be taken to avoid dislodging these teeth during airway management. Very loose teeth can be removed before proceeding with airway manage- ment to prevent accidental dislodgement and possible aspiration. Preanesthetic

  chunk 9: book=Stanford CA-1 page=10
  text: Section: GOALS OF THE CA-1 TUTORIAL MONTH. GOALS OF THE CA-1 TUTORIAL MONTH Anesthesia is a “hands-on” specialty. Acquiring the fundamental knowledge, as well as cognitive and technical skills necessary to provide safe anesthesia, are essential early on in your training. The CA-1 Mentorship Program and the CA-1 Introduction to Anesthesia Lecture Series will provide you with the opportunity to achieve these goals. The following are essential cognitive and technical skills that each CA-1 resident should acquire by the end of their first month. I. Preoperative Preparation: a. Perform a complete s


=== ITEM 23: Non-intubated thoracic surgery ===
  chunk 0: book=Stanford CA-1 page=91
  text: Section: Why Antibiotics?. Why Antibiotics? In 1984 a study including 51 acute care hospitals in New York State found that surgical site infection (SSI) was the most common adverse surgical event (and the second most common adverse event overall). Perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis – administration of abx prior to surgery to prevent surgical site infections, but best practice also includes sterility (surgeon and instruments), skin prep (clipping hair, allowing skin antiseptic to dry) Barash, Paul G. Clinical Anesthesia. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer/Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2009. Print.

  chunk 1: book=Stanford CA-1 page=93
  text: Section: ITE tip. ITE tip Which of the following antibiotics does NOT augment neuromuscular blockade? a. Clindamycin b. Neomycin c. Streptomycin d. Erythromycin Answer: d. Cephalosporins also do not affect neuromuscular blockade. American Society of Anesthesiologists, ACE Program 2008. Pages 44-47. Ann S, Reisman RE. Risk of administering cephalosporin antibiotics to patients with histories of penicillin allergy. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol 1995; 74:167-170 Antimicrobial prophylaxis for surgery. Treat Guidel Med Lett 2009; 7:47 Barash, Paul G. Clinical Anesthesia. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer/L

  chunk 2: book=MGH Housestaff Manual page=235
  text: Section: Calling Consults. Calling Consults Beth Gay T I P S F O R C A L L I N G C O N S U L T S To do BEFORE you call: Place order in Epic for consult Know your patient: review the H&P/chart and see/examine the patient; recommend reviewing last clinic & operative notes if applicable (Notes → Filters → Specialty); for all below, mention any outpatient providers GI: melena/hematochezia, current/prior H/H, plts, coags, transfusions, past EGD/colo, vitals, IV access, NSAID/ASA use, rectal exam findings; for cirrhosis: any prior work-up, social history, complications, decompensation Cards: recent 

  chunk 3: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=339
  text: Section: Chapter 17 Spinal, Epidural, and Caudal Anesthesia. Chapter 17 Spinal, Epidural, and Caudal Anesthesia Sympathetic blockade may also be relatively spared for the same reason, although cases are described with hypotension from partial sympathectomy. The treatment is symptomatic, and the catheter should be removed and resited. to 30 minutes after injection. With a subdural block, the motor block will be modest compared with the extent of sensory blockade, because the subdural space is rela- tively more capacious in the posterior and lateral aspects, leading to sparing of the anterior mo

  chunk 4: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=250
  text: Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT Though ventilation via a mask is generally avoided with RSI, the use of positive pressure less than 20 cm H2O (called modified RSI) should minimize the risk of gastric insufflation and may be needed if the patient develops hypoxemia before tracheal intubation. Although RSI with cricoid pressure has been used for several decades and is a standard approach, a 2015 metaanalysis did not demonstrate a measurable impact of cricoid pressure on clinical outcom

  chunk 5: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=405
  text: Section: Chapter 20 Anesthetic Monitoring. Chapter 20 Anesthetic Monitoring 1. Szocik J, Barker SJ, Tremper KK. Funda- mental Principles of Monitoring Instru- mentation in Miller’s Anesthesia. 8th ed. Vol. 1. Churchill Livingstone Elsevier; 2. American Society of Anesthesiologists Standards for Basic Anesthetic Monitor- ing, approved on October 21, 1986 and last amended on October 20, 2015 with an effective date of October 28, 2015. https://www.asahq.org/quality-and-prac- tice-management/standards-and-guide- lines. Accessed on September 29, 2020. 3. Tremper KK, Barker SJ. Pulse oximetry. Anest

  chunk 6: book=MGH Housestaff Manual page=249
  text: Section: Rachel E. Grenier & Eric L. Tung. Rachel E. Grenier & Eric L. Tung UGI series: barium swallow plus stomach, pylorus, and duodenal bulb  bariatric surgery pre-op eval SB follow-through: small bowel, terminal ileum, and proximal LB ± UGI series beforehand C A R D I O VA S C U L A R P R O T O C OL S V A S C X4-7115 | CA R D CT X4-7132 | C A R D MR X3-4457 DVT imaging: Compression ultrasound is the best initial test of choice (ACR 2018); Epic order “LENI” (Lower Extremity Non-Invasive) CTV/MRV: primarily used for central venous thrombosis when initial US is equivocal or non-diagnostic Ar

  chunk 7: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=484
  text: Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS [METs]); patients who are asymptomatic walking on flat ground will often report symptoms when walking up stairs (approximately 4 METs for one flight of stairs). Other potential signs of significant cardiac disease include (1) the inability to lie flat, (2) awakening from sleep with angina or shortness of breath, and (3) angina at rest or with mini- mal exertion. Limited exercise tolerance in the absence of significant pulmonary disease is the most striking evidence of decreased cardiac reserve. 

  chunk 8: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=322
  text: Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT C2 C2 C3 C4 C5 C6 C7 C7 C8 T1 T2 T3 T4 T5 T6 T7 T8 T9 L1 L2 L3 L4 L5 S1 S2 S3 Sensory level anesthesia necessary for surgical procedures Sensory level L2-L3 (knee) L1-L3 (inguinal ligament) T10 (umbilicus) T4 (nipple) T6-T7 (xiphoid process) Foot surgery Lower extremity surgery Hip surgery Transurethral resection of the prostate Vaginal delivery Upper abdominal surgery Cesarean section Lower abdominal surgery Type of surgery S4 S5 S1 S2 L5 L2 L3 C3 C4 

  chunk 9: book=MGH Housestaff Manual page=46
  text: Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care Respiratory Distress Cassandra Fiorino Respiratory distress is a constellation of symptoms that portends impending respiratory collapse. It is different from dyspnea, which is the subjective sensation of shortness of breath. Key symptoms of respiratory distress are: Tachypnea (go look at the patient and measure yourself. RR ≥20) Cyanosis (typically SpO2 <80%) ↑WOB (nose flaring, retractions, grunting, tripod-ing, diaphoresis) Obstruction (wheezing, stridor) A P P R OA C H Confirm code status Low threshold to call Rapid Response for 


=== ITEM 24: Obstetric Hemorrhage: Unique Considerations ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=781
  text: Section: Pregnancy and Heart Disease. Pregnancy and Heart Disease Both acquired and congenital heart disease may present in pregnancy. Of all the developed countries, the United States has the highest maternal mortality rate, and cardiovascular disease is a major contributor. Peripartum cardiomyopathy, pulmonary hypertension, and ischemic heart disease are commonly acquired forms of cardiovascular disease. Patients may present with uncorrected congenital heart disease or sequelae from prior corrective surgeries. ANESTHESIA FOR CAROTID ARTERY SURGERY Preoperative Considerations Ischemic cerebro

  chunk 1: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=602
  text: Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS System Parameter Value at Term Compared With Nonpregnant Value Cardiovascular System Intravascular fluid volume Increased 35%–45% Plasma volume Increased 45%–55% Erythrocyte volume Increased 20%–30% Cardiac output Increased 40%–50% Stroke volume Increased 25%–30% Heart rate Increased 15%–25% Peripheral circulation Systemic vascular Decreased 20% Pulmonary vascular Decreased 35% Central venous pressure No change Pulmonary capillary wedge No change Femoral venous pressure Increased 15%–50% Pulmona

  chunk 2: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=815
  text: Section: Chapter 43 Anesthesia for Trauma. Chapter 43 Anesthesia for Trauma changes in anatomy and biomechanics: (1) increased gen- eralized soft tissue edema that affects pharyngeal/laryngeal structures; (2) increased breast size affecting chest compli- ance and positioning in the supine position and spatial interference with laryngoscopy; (3) reduced FRC, resulting in relatively rapid desaturation; and (4) lower esophageal sphincter incompetence, resulting in higher risk of aspira- tion. Because of these factors, the approach to the maternal airway requires increased attention in the trauma 

  chunk 3: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=942
  text: Section: Transposition of the great arteries. Transposition of the great arteries (TGA), 633 Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), in OSA, 864 Transtracheal block, 274 Transtracheal jet ventilation, 276 Transverse short-axis, 330 Transversus abdominis plane, 333f block, 729 Trauma, 768 adjuncts and investigations, 774b, bay, 770 airway and oxygenation, 771 altered physiology, 771 anesthetic drug choices, 771 circulation and hemorrhage, 773 disability, 774b, 774 exposure, 774 failed endotracheal intubation drills, 773 fasting, 771 hemodynamic status, 771 laryngoscope, 772 management of, 771b, 7

  chunk 4: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=622
  text: Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS severe features and preeclampsia with severe features or eclampsia.87 However, these guidelines do not recom- mend routine magnesium prophylaxis for patients with gestational hypertension or preeclampsia without severe features.87 91 Magnesium can significantly increase the efficacy and duration of both depolarizing and non- depolarizing muscle relaxants. Magnesium sulfate also increases uterine and smooth muscle relaxation. Magnesium sulfate is typically administered via a 4to 6-gram IV loading

  chunk 5: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=634
  text: Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS 58. D'Angelo R, Smiley RM, Riley ET, etal. Serious complications related to obstet- ric anesthesia: the serious complication repository project of the Society for Obstetric Anesthesia and Perinatology. Anesthesiology. 2014;120:1505–1512. 59. Ruppen W, Derry S, McQuay H, etal. Incidence of epidural hematoma, infec- tion, and neurologic injury in obstetric patients with epidural analgesia/anes- thesia. Anesthesiology. 2006;105:394– 399. 60. Burkle CM, Olsen DA, Sviggum HP, etal. Parturient reca

  chunk 6: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=624
  text: Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS unscarred uterus is far more rare. The clinical presenta- tion is variable with no finding being 100% sensitive. Signs and symptoms may include fetal bradycardia, persistent abdominal pain, vaginal bleeding, cessation of contractions, loss of station, maternal hypotension, and breakthrough pain with epidural analgesia.100 Persistent abdominal pain is not always a diagnostic finding but has a high correlation, and an abnormal FHR pattern is often the first and most common sign associated with ute

  chunk 7: book=Society Guideline: Guideline   KDIGO 2024 CKD page=26
  text: Section: Special considerations. Special considerations The Work Group recognizes that kidney diseases affect people at different times and with different impacts across the whole lifespan. Thus, enabling a personalized approach, considering age, sex, and gender for diagnosis, risk assessment, and treatment is critical. At the extremes of age—the very young and the very old—diagnostic procedures, treatment aims, treatment modalities, and decision-making differ due to dif- ferences in prognosis, treatment options, and prioritization. In young and middle-aged adults, treatment approaches may dif

  chunk 8: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=634
  text: Massive Transfusion Protocols in Obstetric Hemorrhage: Theory versus Reality

  chunk 9: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=620
  text: Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS of the second twin. When the second twin is breech, epidural analgesia allows optimal analgesia and relaxa- tion of the perineum during delivery of the head or if instrumented vaginal delivery is required to deliver the second twin. Administration of agents that provide rapid uterine relaxation (e.g., IV nitroglycerin) may be required to improve delivery conditions for the second twin and reduce the risk of head entrapment. Administration of a small volume of a more concentrated local anesthetic


=== ITEM 25: Obstructive Shock ===
  chunk 0: book=Society Guideline page=77
  text: Section: Curr Opin Anaesthesiol 2018; 31:55–60. 520. Kuhn SO, Meissner K, Mayes LM, et al: Vitamin C in sepsis. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol 2018; 31:55–60 521. Marik PE, Khangoora V, Rivera R, et al: Hydrocortisone, vi- tamin C, and thiamine for the treatment of severe sepsis and septic shock: A retrospective before-after study. Chest 2017; 151:1229–1238 522. Putzu A, Daems AM, Lopez-Delgado JC, et al: The effect of vitamin C on clinical outcome in critically ill patients: A sys- tematic review with meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Crit Care Med 2019; 47:774–783 523. Fowler AA III, Tr

  chunk 1: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=467
  text: Section: Chapter 24 Fluid Management. Chapter 24 Fluid Management 8. Young JB, Utter GH, Schermer CR, etal. Saline versus Plasma- Lyte A in initial resuscitation of trauma patients: A rand- omized trial. Ann Surg. Feb 2014;259(2):255–262. doi:10.1097/ SLA.0b013e318295feba. 9. Soussi S, Ferry A, Chaussard M, Legrand M. Chloride toxicity in critically ill patients: What's the evidence? Anaesth Crit Care Pain Med. 2017;36(2):125–130. doi:10.1016/j.accpm.2016.03.008. 10. Chaussard M, Dépret F, Saint-Aubin O, etal. Physiologi- cal response to fluid resuscitation with Ringer lactate versus Plasmal

  chunk 2: book=Marino ICU Book page=153
  text: Section: See Chapter 23 for more information on lactate accumu­. 1 36 Hemodynamic Monitoring a useful marker of impaired tissue oxygenation in severe sepsis. d. There is a sh·ong correlation between hyperlactatemia and mortality in severe sepsis (12,17), particularly when 4 mEq/L is used as the threshold for lactate ele­ vation (12). Therefore, elevated blood lactate levels have prognostic implications in severe sepsis. See Chapter 23 for more information on lactate accumu­ lation in blood. 1 . Sasse SA, Chen PA, Berry RB, et al. Variability of cardiac output over time in medical intensive car

  chunk 3: book=Marino ICU Book page=628
  text: Section: Adrenal and Thyroid Dysfunction. Adrenal and Thyroid Dysfunction 61 1 Lugol's solution (4 drops every 12 hours) or intraven­ ously as sodium iodide (500 to 1000 mg every 12 hours). If the patient has an iodide allergy, lithium (300 mg oral׹ ly every 8 hours) can be used as a substitute (16). 4. Thyroid Stol"m a. In addition to the above measures, the treatment of thyroid storm often requires aggressive volume infu­ sion (to replace fluid losses from vomiting, diarrhea, and heightened insensible fluid loss). b. Thyroid storm can accelerate glucocorticoid metabo­ lism and create a relat

  chunk 4: book=Marino ICU Book page=394
  text: Section: Organic Acidoses. Organic Acidoses l. Gauthier PM, Szerlip HM. Metabolic acidosis in the intensive care unit. Crit Care Clin 2002; 18:289-308. 2. Judge BS. Metabolic acidosis: differentiating the causes in the poisoned patient. Med Clin N Arn 2005; 89:1107-1124. 3. Iberti TS, Liebowitz AB, Papadakos PJ, et al. Low sensitivity of the anion gap as a screen to detect hyperlactaternia in critically ill patients. Crit Care Med 1990; 18:275-277. 4. Weil MH, Afifi AA. Experimental and clinical studies on lactate and pyruvate as indicators of the severity of acute circulatory failure (shock).

  chunk 5: book=Marino ICU Book page=45
  text: Section: Preventive Practices in the Critically Ill. Preventive Practices in the Critically Ill suppression with ranitidine can result in more lives lost from pneumonia than lives saved from fewer bleeding episodes. This is one reason to avoid the use of gastric acid suppression with ranitidine (or any other drug) as a preventive strategy for stress-related gastric erosions. b. Severe sepsis and septic shock are among the leading causes of death in ICU patients, and the gastrointesti­ nal tract is an important reservoir for pathogens in these conditions (16). The suppression of gastric acid­ i

  chunk 6: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=2162
  text: Section: American Association of Poison Control Centers. http://www.aapcc.org/. American Association of Poison Control Centers. http://www.aapcc.org/ American Heart Association. http://cpr.heart.org/AHAECC/CPRAndECC/ResuscitationScience/Guidelines/UCM_ Quick Sepsis-Related Organ Function Assessment. http://www.qsofa.org/ SOFA calculator. http://clincalc.com/IcuMortality/SOFA.aspx Surviving Sepsis campaign. http://www.survivingsepsis.org/ SUGGESTED READINGS Andrews LJ, Benken ST. COVID-19: ICU delirium management during SARS-CoV-2 pandemic-pharmacological considerations. Crit Care. 2020;24:375.

  chunk 7: book=Society Guideline page=71
  text: Section: 345. Rochwerg B, Alhazzani W, Gibson A, et al; FISSH Group. e1133 hypovolemic shock: The CRISTAL randomized trial. JAMA 2013; 310:1809–1817 345. Rochwerg B, Alhazzani W, Gibson A, et al; FISSH Group (Fluids in Sepsis and Septic Shock): Fluid type and the use of renal replacement therapy in sepsis: A systematic re- view and network meta-analysis. Intensive Care Med 2015; 41:1561–1571 346. Moeller C, Fleischmann C, Thomas-Rueddel D, et al: How safe is gelatin? A systematic review and meta-analysis of gelatin-containing plasma expanders vs crystalloids and al- bumin. J Crit Care 2016; 35

  chunk 8: book=Stanford CA-1 page=36
  text: Section: Pressor/Ionotrope comparison. Pressor/Ionotrope comparison Initial bolus Time to Duration of Infusion rate 50 – 100 mcg <1 min 1 min 10 – 15 min 0.2 – 2 mcg/kg/min 0.5 – 1 unit <1 min 1 min 30 – 60 min 0.01 – 0.04 units/min 5 – 10 mcg <1 min 1 min 1 – 2 min 0.02 – 0.3 mcg/kg/min 5 – 10 mg 1 – 2 min 2 – 5 min 60 min 5 – 10 mcg <1 min 2 min <5 min 0.02 – 0.3 mcg/kg/min ITE tip: Vasopressor receptors ITE tip A 56-year-old patient with a history of liver disease and osteomyelitis is anesthetized for tibial debridement. After induction and intubation, the wound is inspected and debrided wi

  chunk 9: book=Society Guideline page=72
  text: Section: 376. Bur A, Hirschl MM, Herkner H, et al: Accuracy of oscillomet-. 376. Bur A, Hirschl MM, Herkner H, et al: Accuracy of oscillomet- ric blood pressure measurement according to the relation between cuff size and upper-arm circumference in critically ill patients. Crit Care Med 2000; 28:371–376 377. Kaur B, Kaur S, Yaddanapudi LN, et al: Comparison between invasive and noninvasive blood pressure measurements in critically ill patients receiving inotropes. Blood Press Monit 2019; 24:24–29 378. Lehman LW, Saeed M, Talmor D, et al: Methods of blood pressure measurement in the ICU. Crit Ca


=== ITEM 26: Orthopedic trauma and fracture fixation ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1298
  text: Section: Electrocardiography may show ischemic ST-segment changes and a pattern of right-. The diagnosis of fat embolism syndrome is suggested by petechiae on the chest, upper extremities, axillae, and conjunctiva. Fat globules occasionally may be observed in the retina (with ophthalmoscopy), urine, or sputum. Coagulation abnormalities such as thrombocytopenia or prolonged clotting times are occasionally present. Serum lipase activity may be elevated but does not predict disease severity. Pulmonary involvement typically progresses from mild hypoxia and a normal chest radiograph to severe hypox

  chunk 1: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=2119
  text: Section: 3. How would these or other commonly associated abnormalities affect anesthetic. 3. How would these or other commonly associated abnormalities affect anesthetic 4. Are the potential anesthetic interactions serious enough to delay surgery until a suspected cause is conclusively excluded? The tachycardia of 150 beats/min and the low-grade fever therefore require further evaluation prior to surgery. What are the likely causes of the tachycardia and fever in this patient? These two abnormalities may reflect one process or separate entities (Tables 56–4 and 56–5). Moreover, although multip

  chunk 2: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=599
  text: Section: Chapter 32 Orthopedic Surgery. Chapter 32 Orthopedic Surgery 24. Owen JH, Laschinger J, Bridwell K, etal. Sensitivity and specificity of soma- tosensory and neurogenic motor evoked potentials in animals and humans. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1988;13(10):1111–1118. 25. Hilibrand AS, Schwartz DM, Sethura- man V, etal. Comparison of transcra- nial electric motor and somatosensory evoked potential monitoring during cer- vical spine surgery. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2004;86:1248–1253. 26. MacDonald D. Intraoperative motor evoked potential monitoring: over- view and update. J Clin Monit Comput. 

  chunk 3: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Abdominal & Pelvic Trauma page=11
  text: Section: Pearls and Other Issues. rapy from a complex pelvic fracture. They should be educated on the possibility of chronic pain and should receive information on pain management options, as well as options for the possible depression and anxiety that may follow. Patients with colostomies from colonic injuries should receive ostomy training. The possibility of sexual dysfunction should be addressed with appropriate referrals to OB/GYN or urology. Pearls and Other Issues Pelvic injuries are associated with high mortality, associated internal injuries, and significant bleeding. A plain pelvic x

  chunk 4: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Abdominal & Pelvic Trauma page=8
  text: ion, earlier mobilization, and control of bleeding from fractured bones. [4] [38] There are a few surgical options available. External fixation allows initial stabilization in hemodynamically unstable patients and those with pelvic contamination. It is generally placed within the operating room. The common pin locations are the iliac wings and the anterior inferior iliac spine. The iliac wing is accessed by making an incision about 2 cm posterior to the anterior superior iliac spine down to the bone. The gluteal ridge is the target insertion spot due to its strength. The pin is inserted manual

  chunk 5: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Abdominal & Pelvic Trauma page=7
  text: d of finding an arterial bleeding source, and because there is a strong correlation between time to embolization and survival as stated above. Preperitoneal packing (PPP) involves putting packing up against the peritoneum to create a tamponade effect. It is less time consuming than angioembolization. Preperitoneal packing is useful for hemodynamically unstable patients at centers without IR. It can also be used as a bridge to more time-consuming procedures, such as angioembolization, at level 1 trauma centers. Another important use is in patients that are hemodynamically unstable and require o

  chunk 6: book=MGH Housestaff Manual page=229
  text: Section: Primary Care. Primary Care Musculoskeletal Pain Joshua Ellis K N E E P A I N (PCOI) History: trauma, acute vs chronic, association with activity, constitutional sx, swelling, stiffness, instability, popping, locking or catching sensation, sensory/motor changes, BMI, orthopedic or rheumatologic hx. Have pt point to area of pain with one finger Knee Exam Positive in Lachman (sim. to anterior drawer) Pt supine with knee flexed to 20-30°. One hand on pt’s femur, just above knee. Other hand on pt’s tibia. Apply anterior pressure. If tibia feels less restrained, ⊕ test ACL injury Posterior 

  chunk 7: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Abdominal & Pelvic Trauma page=9
  text: Section: Differential Diagnosis. vesicocutaneous or urethrocutaneous fistula formation. [47] Sigmoid and intraperitoneal rectal injuries should be debrided and primarily repaired when able. An injury comprising less than 50% circumference is eligible for primary repair. This has been shown to reduce complications. For injuries that cannot be primarily repaired, resection with primary anastomosis is usually performed with or without fecal diversion. [48] For injuries that are greater than 50%, the colon or rectum should be debrided to healthy tissue. Then a primary anastomosis or diversion can 

  chunk 8: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=982
  text: Section: Intubation. All patients should be regarded as having a full stomach and should have appropriate precautions during ventilation and tracheal intubation. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of the Sellick maneuver in preventing aspiration is questionable. In-line stabilization should be used during airway manipulation to maintain the head in a neutral position unless radiographs confirm that there is no cervical spine injury. Following preoxygenation, the adverse effects of intubation on ICP are blunted by prior administration of propofol, 1.5 to 3.0 mg/kg, and a rapid-onset NMB. Succinylc

  chunk 9: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=967
  text: Section: Anesthetic techniques must be modified in the pre​sence of intracranial hypertension and. Anesthetic techniques must be modified in the pre​sence of intracranial hypertension and marginal cerebral perfusion. In addition, many neuro​surgical procedures require patient positions (eg, sitting, prone) that further complicate management. This chapter applies the principles developed in Chapter 26 to the anesthetic care of neuro​surgical patients. Intracranial Hypertension Intracranial hypertension is defined as a sustained increase in intracranial pressure (ICP) above 15 mm Hg. Intracrania


=== ITEM 27: Pulse Oximetry: Principles & Limitations ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=220
  text: Pulse oximetry: understanding its basic principles facilitates appreciation of its limitations

  chunk 1: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=220
  text: Section: GUIDELINES. American Society of Anesthesiologists Standards for Basic Anesthetic Monitoring. SUGGESTED READINGS Avidan M, Zhang L, Burnside B, et al. Anesthesia awareness and bispectral index. New Eng J Med. 2008;358:1097. Bergeron EJ, Mosca MS, Aftab M, Justison G, Reece TB. Neuroprotection strategies in aortic surgery. Cardiol Clin. 2017;35:453. Brull SJ, Kopman AF. Current status of neuromuscular reversal and monitoring: challenges and opportunities. Anesthesiology. 2017;126:173. Chan ED, Chan MM, Chan MM. Pulse oximetry: understanding its basic principles facilitates appreciation 

  chunk 2: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=191
  text: Section: PULSE OXIMETRY. however, is best made with a binaural stethoscope. PULSE OXIMETRY Indications & Contraindications Pulse oximeters are mandatory monitors for any anesthetic, including cases of moderate sedation. There are no contraindications. Techniques & Complications Pulse oximeters combine the principles of oximetry and plethysmography to noninvasively measure oxygen saturation in arterial blood. A sensor containing light sources (two or three light-emitting diodes) and a light detector (a photodiode) is placed across a finger, toe, earlobe, or any other perfused tissue that can be

  chunk 3: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=191
  text: Techniques & Complications Pulse oximeters combine the principles of oximetry and plethysmography to noninvasively measure oxygen saturation in arterial blood

  chunk 4: book=Stanford CA-1 page=13
  text: Section: Standard Monitors. Standard Monitors Monitoring in the Past Finger on the pulse Not totally blue Basic Anesthetic Monitoring ASA Standards for Basic Anesthetic Monitoring STANDARD I “Qualified anesthesia personnel shall be present in the room throughout the conduct of all general anesthetics, regional anesthetics, and monitored anesthesia care.” STANDARD II “During all anesthetics, the patient’s oxygenation, ventilation, circulation, and temperature shall be continually evaluated.” -If using anesthesia machine: Inspired gas FiO2 analyzer + low O2 concentration alarm -All anesthetics: 

  chunk 5: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=727
  text: Section: Chapter 39 Postanesthesia Recovery. Chapter 39 Postanesthesia Recovery which cause increased pulmonary vascular permeability resulting in pulmonary edema. Clinical manifestations include fever, pulmonary infiltrates on chest radiograph, cyanosis, and systemic hypotension. The sudden onset of hypoxemic respiratory failure can occur up to 6 hours after the conclusion of the transfusion, and TRALI may first present when the patient is in the PACU.15 Treatment is supportive and includes supplemental oxygen and diuresis. Approximately 80% of patients will recover within 48 to 96 hours.16 M

  chunk 6: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=727
  text: Limitations of Pulse Oximetry The ASA Standards for Postanesthesia Care require a quantitative method of assessing oxygenation such as pulse oximetry

  chunk 7: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=405
  text: Section: Chapter 20 Anesthetic Monitoring. Chapter 20 Anesthetic Monitoring 1. Szocik J, Barker SJ, Tremper KK. Funda- mental Principles of Monitoring Instru- mentation in Miller’s Anesthesia. 8th ed. Vol. 1. Churchill Livingstone Elsevier; 2. American Society of Anesthesiologists Standards for Basic Anesthetic Monitor- ing, approved on October 21, 1986 and last amended on October 20, 2015 with an effective date of October 28, 2015. https://www.asahq.org/quality-and-prac- tice-management/standards-and-guide- lines. Accessed on September 29, 2020. 3. Tremper KK, Barker SJ. Pulse oximetry. Anest

  chunk 8: book=Stanford CA-1 page=46
  text: Section: Fluid Management. Fluid Management Evaluation of Intravascular Volume • Hypovolemia: vomiting, diarrhea, fever, sepsis, trauma • Hypervolemia: weight gain, edema, acute renal failure, Physical Exam • Hypovolemia: skin turgor, thready pulse, dry mucous membranes, tachycardia, orthostasis, decreased UOP • Hypervolemia: pitting edema, rales, wheezing, elevated JVP • Hypovolemia: rising Hct, contraction alkalosis then metabolic acidosis, Ur specific gravity > 1.010, Urine Na < 10, Urine Osm > 450, hypernatremia, BUN:Cr > 10:1; bedside ultrasound (IVC <1.7cm OR 1.7cm with >50% IVCCI) • Hyp

  chunk 9: book=Stanford CA-1 page=14
  text: Section: Pulse Oximetry Pearls. Pulse Oximetry Pearls Other factors producing a falsely LOW SpO2: • dyes (methylene blue > indocyanine green > indigo carmine) • blue nail polish • shivering/other motion, • ambient light • malpositioned sensor • low perfusion (low cardiac output, profound anemia, hypothermia, elevated SVR) Factors with NO EFFECT on SpO2 = bili, HbF, HbS, SuHb, acrylic nails, fluorescein dye. Cyanosis - clinically apparent with 5 g/dl desaturated Hb. Typically seen clinically at an SpO2 around 85%. 3-Electrode System – Allows monitoring of Leads I, II, and III – but only one lea


=== ITEM 28: Robotic surgery anesthesia (da Vinci platform) ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1821
  text: Section: A laparoscopic approach is also associated with less postoperative surgical pain, better. significantly less surgical stress than corresponding “open” procedures. Published data highlight the safety of minimally invasive procedures in the hands of adequately trained and experienced surgeons. Moreover, a longer-term salutary impact is achieved when laparoscopic techniques are included in ERPs. For example, laparoscopic procedures are associated with a reduced incidence of surgical complications, especially surgical site infections, when compared with the same procedures performed in “o

  chunk 1: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1821
  text: Advancements in surgical care over the past two decades, such as robotic surgery, natural orifice specimen extraction during laparoscopic surgery, endoscopic surgical approaches, and minimally invasive orthopedic surgery, have further moderated the stress of surgery, and

  chunk 2: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1173
  text: Section: Although the mechanisms are not clear, they most likely involve sympathetic activation,. parameters may be seen in patients undergoing laparoscopic and robotic surgery, especially in the steep Trendelenburg position. Operative procedures near the liver can reduce hepatic blood flow up to 60%. Although the mechanisms are not clear, they most likely involve sympathetic activation, local reflexes, and direct compression of vessels in the portal and hepatic circulations. β-Adrenergic blockers, α1-adrenergic agonists, H2-receptor blockers, and vasopressin reduce hepatic blood flow. Dopamin

  chunk 3: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1152
  text: Joint consensus on anesthesia in urologic and gynecologic robotic surgery: specific issues in management from a task force of the SIAARTI, SIGO, and SIU

  chunk 4: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1154
  text: Section: McGowan-Smyth S, Vasdev N, Gowrie-Mohan S. Spinal anesthesia facilitates the. Kumar V, Vineet K, Deb A. TUR syndrome – a report. Urol Case Rep. 2019;26:100982. McGowan-Smyth S, Vasdev N, Gowrie-Mohan S. Spinal anesthesia facilitates the early recognition of TUR syndrome. Curr Urol. 2015;9:57. Nasrallah G, Souki FG. Perianesthetic management of laparoscopic kidney surgery. Curr Urol Rep. 2018;19:1. Nik-Ahd F, Souders CP, Houman J, et al. Robotic urologic surgery: trends in Food and Drug Administration-reported adverse events over the last decade. J Endourol. 2019;33:649. Practice advis

  chunk 5: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=978
  text: Section: The ability to rapidly provide controlled ventilation and general anesthesia for. amnesia. Sedation should be omitted, however, if the patient already has increased ICP. The ability to rapidly provide controlled ventilation and general anesthesia for emergency craniotomy is mandatory but is complicated by the platform and localizing frame that is attached to the patient’s head for the procedure. Although mask ventilation or ventilation through a laryngeal mask airway (LMA) or orotracheal intubation might be readily accomplished in an emergency, awake intubation with a fiberoptic bronc

  chunk 6: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1152
  text: Section: How can the shivering be stopped?. How can the shivering be stopped? Regardless of its cause, shivering has the undesirable effects of markedly increasing metabolic oxygen demand (100–200%) and CO2 production. Both cardiac output and minute ventilation must therefore increase, and these effects are often poorly tolerated by patients with limited cardiac or pulmonary reserve. Although the ultimate therapeutic goal is to correct the underlying problem, additional measures are indicated in this patient. Supplemental oxygen therapy addresses hypoxemia. Meperidine in small doses (12.5–25 m

  chunk 7: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1173
  text: parameters may be seen in patients undergoing laparoscopic and robotic surgery, especially in the steep Trendelenburg position

  chunk 8: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1153
  text: Section: Calixto Fernandes MH, Schricker T, Magder S, et al. Perioperative fluid management. resection of the prostate vs monopolar transurethral resection of prostate in the treatment of moderate-large volume prostatic hyperplasia: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Endourol. 2021;35:663. Calderone CE, Tuck BC, Gray SH, et al. The role of transesophageal echocardiography in the management of renal cell carcinoma with venous tumor thrombus. Echocardiography. 2018;35:2047. Calixto Fernandes MH, Schricker T, Magder S, et al. Perioperative fluid management in kidney transplantation: a black

  chunk 9: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1810
  text: Long Y, Yi W, Yang D. Advances in vertebral augmentation systems for osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures. Pain Res Manag. 2020;2020:3947368. Meng L, Tseng CH, Shivkumar K, Ajijola O. Efficacy of stellate ganglion blockade in managing electrical storm: a systematic review. JACC Clin Electrophysiol. 2017;3:942. Ni Y, Yang L, Han R, et al. Implantable peripheral nerve stimulation for trigeminal neuropathic pain: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Neuromodulation. 2021;24:983. Niraj G, Kamel Y. Ultrasound-guided subcostal TAP block with depot steroids in the management of chronic abdo


=== ITEM 29: ICU Nutrition ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=2126
  text: Section: Scope. nosocomial infections. Systemic pooling of blood and transudation of fluid into tissues result in relative hypovolemia in patients with sepsis. The range of conditions that specialists in critical care medicine must address is extraordinarily broad. Many frequent concerns of the intensivist are covered in other chapters and will not be discussed here to avoid duplication. Therefore, for an overview of critical care medicine, the reader will need to refer to chapters where airway management (Chapter 19), inhalation therapy and ventilator management (Chapter 58), adrenergic agoni

  chunk 1: book=Society Guideline page=77
  text: Section: Curr Opin Anaesthesiol 2018; 31:55–60. 520. Kuhn SO, Meissner K, Mayes LM, et al: Vitamin C in sepsis. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol 2018; 31:55–60 521. Marik PE, Khangoora V, Rivera R, et al: Hydrocortisone, vi- tamin C, and thiamine for the treatment of severe sepsis and septic shock: A retrospective before-after study. Chest 2017; 151:1229–1238 522. Putzu A, Daems AM, Lopez-Delgado JC, et al: The effect of vitamin C on clinical outcome in critically ill patients: A sys- tematic review with meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Crit Care Med 2019; 47:774–783 523. Fowler AA III, Tr

  chunk 2: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=776
  text: Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE 25. Ladeira MT, Vital FMR, Andriolo RB, Andriolo BNG, Atallah AN, Peccin MS. Pressure support versus T-tube for weaning from mechanical ventilation in adults. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014(5):CD006056. 26. Burns KEA, Meade MO, Premji A, Adhi- kari NKJ. Noninvasive positive-pres- sure ventilation as a weaning strategy for intubated adults with respiratory failure. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013(12):CD004127. 27. Young D, Harrison DA, Cuthbertson BH, Rowan K, Collaborators Trac- Man. Effect of earl

  chunk 3: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=925
  text: Section: Index. minimum alveolar concentration, 88, 90f, 90t, 91b obesity and, 48 occupational hazards of, 875 organ system effects, 92 cardiovascular system, 94, 94f central nervous system, 92, 93f hepatic system, 95, 96f neuromuscular function, 96 pulmonary system, 94, 95f renal system, 95, 96f pharmacology of, 617 physical properties, 83 toxicity and adverse events, 97 cancer recurrence and morbidity, developmental neurotoxicity, 99 malignant hyperthermia, 98, 98f, 99t postoperative cognitive dysfunction, 100b, 100 postoperative nausea and vomiting, 97, 97f reactions with carbon dioxide abs

  chunk 4: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=784
  text: Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE Obstructive Sleep Apnea and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (also see Chapters 48 and 27) Preventing postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs) is an important goal in the perioperative period. PPCs are dangerous to the patient and costly to the health system, adding an average of $25,000+ per episode for significant complications (e.g., pneumonia, pleural effusion, reintu- bation, prolonged intubation).45 Several calculators can estimate the perioperative risk of PPC for a given patient, and 

  chunk 5: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=776
  text: Stress ulcer prophylaxis in intensive care unit patients receiving enteral nutrition: A systematic review and meta-analysis

  chunk 6: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=221
  text: Section: Chapter 13 Preoperative Evaluation. Chapter 13 Preoperative Evaluation HPI Element Anesthetic Considerations Extremes of age are associated with changes in physiology (also see Chapters 34 and 35). Some anesthetic complications, such as postoperative nausea and vomiting, are more likely in female patients. Surgical Diagnosis The surgical diagnosis may be associated with medical issues that have anesthetic implications. For example, a patient with severe back pain scheduled for spinal fusion may be receiving long-term opiate medications. A patient with small bowel obstruction may have 

  chunk 7: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=186
  text: Section: The choice of hemodynamic monitors remains with the individual physician and. contour analysis, transpulmonary thermodilution). The choice of hemodynamic monitors remains with the individual physician and the availability of various monitoring techniques. It is important to also consider which monitors can be used postoperatively to ensure the continuation of goal- directed therapy. SUGGESTED READINGS Alhashemi JA, Cecconi M, della Rocca G, Cannesson M, Hofer CK. Minimally invasive monitoring of cardiac output in the cardiac surgery intensive care unit. Curr Heart Fail Rep. 2010;7(3):

  chunk 8: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=113
  text: Section: The hazards of heated humidifiers include thermal lung injury (inhaled gas. The hazards of heated humidifiers include thermal lung injury (inhaled gas temperature should be monitored and should not exceed 41°C), nosocomial infection, increased airway resistance from excess water condensation in the breathing circuit, interference with flowmeter function, and an increased likelihood of circuit disconnection. The use of these humidifiers is particularly valuable in children as they help prevent both hypothermia and the plugging of small tracheal tubes by dried secretions. Of course, any

  chunk 9: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=290
  text: Section: C. Cerebral. C. Cerebral Etomidate decreases cerebral metabolic rate, cerebral blood flow, and intracranial pressure. Because of minimal cardiovascular effects, cerebral perfusion pressure is well maintained. Although changes on EEG resemble those associated with barbiturates, etomidate (like ketamine) increases the amplitude of somatosensory evoked potentials but increases latency and reduces the amplitude of auditory evoked potentials. Postoperative nausea and vomiting are more common following etomidate than following propofol or barbiturate induction. Etomidate lacks analgesic pro


=== ITEM 30: Immunocompromised Host Infections ===
  chunk 0: book=Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI page=42
  text: Section: 194. Legrand M, Max A, Peigne V, et al. Survival in neutropenic patients. 2009 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis 2009; 49:1–45. 194. Legrand M, Max A, Peigne V, et al. Survival in neutropenic patients with severe sepsis or septic shock. Crit Care Med 2012; 40:43–9. 195. Paesmans M, Klastersky J, Maertens J, et al. Predicting febrile neutro- penic patients at low risk using the MASCC score: does bacteremia matter? Support Care Cancer 2011; 19:1001–8. 196. Klastersky J, Paesmans M, Georgala A, et al. Outpatient oral antibiotics for febrile neutropenic

  chunk 1: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=2148
  text: Section: Although gram-negative organisms account for most cases of infection-related SIRS,. may normally have salutatory effects. However, a marked or prolonged response, such as that associated with severe infections, can result in widespread organ dysfunction. Although gram-negative organisms account for most cases of infection-related SIRS, many other infectious agents are capable of inducing the same syndrome. These organisms either elaborate toxins or stimulate the release of substances that trigger this response. The most commonly recognized initiators are lipopolysaccharides released b

  chunk 2: book=Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI page=37
  text: Section: The priorities for further research are as follows:. inclusion criteria, is necessary for enrollment in the clinical trial. The priorities for further research are as follows: 1. Rapid and speciﬁc diagnostic assays are needed for iden- tiﬁcation of microbes that cause cellulitis. 2. Inexpensive agents are needed that are effective against groups A, B, C, and G streptococci as well as staphylococci in- cluding MRSA. 3. Investigations are needed to determine the pathogenesis of soft tissue infections caused by streptococci. This should in- clude the respective roles of toxins and host r

  chunk 3: book=Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI page=41
  text: Section: 145. Talan DA, Abrahamian FM, Moran GJ, Citron DM, Tan JO, Goldstein. 145. Talan DA, Abrahamian FM, Moran GJ, Citron DM, Tan JO, Goldstein EJ. Clinical presentation and bacteriologic analysis of infected human bites in patients presenting to emergency departments. Clin Infect Dis 2003; 37:1481–9. 146. Pascual FB, McGinley EL, Zanardi LR, Cortese MM, Murphy TV. Tetanus surveillance—United States, 1998–2000. MMWR Surveill Summ 2003; 52:1–8. 147. Goldstein EJ. Bite wounds and infection. Clin Infect Dis 1992; 148. Gouin S, Patel H. Ofﬁce management of minor wounds. Can Fam Physician 2001;

  chunk 4: book=StatPearls page=1
  text: Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK539787 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK539787/ Topic: Opportunistic and Immunocompromised Host Pneumonia Article Title: HIV-1–Associated Opportunistic Infections License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. HIV-1–Associated Opportunistic Infections Diogo Bento ; Andrew D. Nguyen . Authors Diogo Bento 1 ; Andrew D. Nguyen 2 . Last Update:

  chunk 5: book=MGH Housestaff Manual page=119
  text: Section: Infectious Disease. Infectious Disease Urinary Tract Infections Katie Kaugars A S Y M P T O M A T I C B A C T E R I U R I A Definition: bacteriuria (≥105 CFU/mL) w/o sx referable to a UTI, irrespective of pyuria Treatment: asymptomatic bacteriuria or pyuria should NOT be treated (exceptions: pregnant woman, s/p renal transplant in past 1mo (controversial), treatment prior to invasive urologic procedures) (IDSA: CID 2019;68:1611) C A T H E T E R-A S S O C I A T E D UTI (CAUTI) (IDSA: CID 2010; 50:625) Definition: leading healthcare-assoc. infection; requires: (1) s/sx with no other ide

  chunk 6: book=Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI page=42
  text: Section: 232. Shinohara MM, George E. Scedosporium apiospermum: an emerging. cancer: a 10-year study. Clin Infect Dis 2000; 31:188–9. 225. Gartenberg G, Bottone EJ, Keusch GT, Weitzman I. Hospital-acquired mucormycosis (Rhizopus rhizopodiformis) of skin and subcutaneous tissue: epidemiology, mycology and treatment. N Engl J Med 1978; 299:1115–8. 226. Anaissie E. Opportunistic mycoses in the immunocompromised host: experience at a cancer center and review. Clin Infect Dis 1992; 14 (suppl 1):S43–53. 227. Nucci M, Anaissie E. Fusarium infections in immunocompromised patients. Clin Microbiol Rev 2

  chunk 7: book=StatPearls page=3
  text: st early fevers are related to the physiologic inflammatory response to surgical trauma, hematoma formation, or blood transfusion reactions, and often resolve spontaneously without intervention. As the postoperative interval increases, the likelihood of infectious causes rises, including surgical site infections (SSIs), pneumonia, urinary tract infections (UTIs), intraperitoneal or deep abscesses, and catheter-related bloodstream infections. Non-infectious causes should also be considered, including pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, myocardial infarction, drug hypersensitivity reaction

  chunk 8: book=Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI page=24
  text: Section: HBO units, which may delay potentially life-saving surgical. effective therapy and crucial to ensure survival [144–146]. Un- necessary delay because of ancillary procedures such as CT scans or MRI should be avoided. Some trauma centers associat- ed with HBO units may have greater expertise in managing these aggressive infections, but proximity and speed of transfer should be carefully considered before transporting the patient to HBO units, which may delay potentially life-saving surgical RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ANIMAL AND HUMAN BITE WOUNDS PREVENTION AND XI. What Is the Role of Preemptiv

  chunk 9: book=Marino ICU Book page=533
  text: Section: B. Empiric Antimicrobial Therapy. 5 1 6 lnOammation and Infection in the ICU B. Empiric Antimicrobial Therapy 1. Indications Empiric antibiotic therapy is inclicated in the following situations: a. When the likelihood of infection is high. b. When there is evidence of progressive dysfunction in two or more vital organs. c. When the patient is immunocompromised. 2. Suggested Antibiotics Empiric antibiotic therapy should be selected on the ba­ sis of common isolates ( see Table 32.5) and antibiotic sus­ ceptibility patterns in each ICU. a. For ICUs where resistant pathogens are common, 


=== ITEM 31: Immunocompromised Host in ICU ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1477
  text: Section: Thus, elective (particularly outpatient) procedures should be deferred until the. and central apnea for up to 24 h. In fact, even full-term infants can experience rare apneic spells following general anesthesia. Risk factors for postanesthetic apnea include a low gestational age at birth, anemia (<30%), hypothermia, sepsis, and neurological abnormalities. The risk of postanesthetic apnea may be decreased by intravenous administration of caffeine (10 mg/kg) or aminophylline. Thus, elective (particularly outpatient) procedures should be deferred until the preterm infant reaches the age 

  chunk 1: book=Society Guideline page=64
  text: Section: 140. Shorr AF, Myers DE, Huang DB, et al: A risk score for identi-. 140. Shorr AF, Myers DE, Huang DB, et al: A risk score for identi- fying methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in patients presenting to the hospital with pneumonia. BMC Infect Dis 2013; 13:268 141. Torre-Cisneros J, Natera C, Mesa F, et al: Clinical predictors of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in nosoco- mial and healthcare-associated pneumonia: A multicenter, matched case-control study. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis 2018; 37:51–56 142. Wooten DA, Winston LG: Risk factors for methicillin-resis- t

  chunk 2: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Shock  Classification & Pathophysiology page=4
  text: welling devices such as central lines or urinary catheters. Candida species, such as C albicans, C parapsilosis, and C glabrata, are the most common fungal agents. [1] C auris , an emerging multidrug-resistant species, poses a significant global concern due to diagnostic challenges, high morbidity, and frequent treatment failures. [11] Collectively, Candida species rank as the fourth most common pathogen in HAIs. [12] Aspergillus fumigatus, acquired through airborne transmission, particularly during hospital construction, may also originate from infected patients as a primary source. [13] [14]

  chunk 3: book=StatPearls page=3
  text: latively common cause of hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated pneumonia. [7] When describing S aureus , distinguishing MRSA from methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) is crucial, as this will determine treatment strategies for these patients. A large, international multicenter study of hospitalized patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) found that 3% of patients developed CAP secondary to S aureus . This had varying prevalence depending on the patient's place of residence. Approximately 51% of the S aureus isolates were found to be secondary to MRSA, and 49% wer

  chunk 4: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=186
  text: Section: The choice of hemodynamic monitors remains with the individual physician and. contour analysis, transpulmonary thermodilution). The choice of hemodynamic monitors remains with the individual physician and the availability of various monitoring techniques. It is important to also consider which monitors can be used postoperatively to ensure the continuation of goal- directed therapy. SUGGESTED READINGS Alhashemi JA, Cecconi M, della Rocca G, Cannesson M, Hofer CK. Minimally invasive monitoring of cardiac output in the cardiac surgery intensive care unit. Curr Heart Fail Rep. 2010;7(3):

  chunk 5: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=113
  text: Section: The hazards of heated humidifiers include thermal lung injury (inhaled gas. The hazards of heated humidifiers include thermal lung injury (inhaled gas temperature should be monitored and should not exceed 41°C), nosocomial infection, increased airway resistance from excess water condensation in the breathing circuit, interference with flowmeter function, and an increased likelihood of circuit disconnection. The use of these humidifiers is particularly valuable in children as they help prevent both hypothermia and the plugging of small tracheal tubes by dried secretions. Of course, any

  chunk 6: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=290
  text: Section: C. Cerebral. C. Cerebral Etomidate decreases cerebral metabolic rate, cerebral blood flow, and intracranial pressure. Because of minimal cardiovascular effects, cerebral perfusion pressure is well maintained. Although changes on EEG resemble those associated with barbiturates, etomidate (like ketamine) increases the amplitude of somatosensory evoked potentials but increases latency and reduces the amplitude of auditory evoked potentials. Postoperative nausea and vomiting are more common following etomidate than following propofol or barbiturate induction. Etomidate lacks analgesic pro

  chunk 7: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=867
  text: Section: Chapter 47 Palliative Care. Chapter 47 Palliative Care exaggerated sense of accountability for the patient's out- come,” can further complicate the prognosis and make it difficult for all parties to agree on what constitutes a “good” outcome.22 Though traditional surgical think- ing viewed palliative care as being at odds with surgical goals, the current statement by the American College of Surgeons encourages integration of palliative care of surgical patients who have a range of conditions, not just those at the end of life.22 Thus anesthesiologists should work closely with surgeons

  chunk 8: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=877
  text: Section: Chapter 47 Palliative Care. Chapter 47 Palliative Care 17. Gebauer SL, Fine PG. Palliative medicine competencies for anesthesiologists. J Clin Anesth. 2014;26:429–431. 18. Kwok AC, Semel ME, Lipsitz SR, etal. The intensity and variation of surgical care at the end of life: A retrospective cohort study. Lancet. 2011;378:1408– 1413. 19. Value of the Professional Nurse in Pallia- tive Care. Hospice and Palliative Nurses Association. https://advancingexpertcare. org/position-statements. Accessed May 26, 2021. 20. National Association of Social Workers. The Certified Hospice and Palliativ

  chunk 9: book=Miller/Baby Miller page=866
  text: Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE Palliative care teams assess and treat the patient's symptoms, discuss goals of care, and assess and treat the patient's and family's psychosocial issues. The palliative care team takes a biopsychosocial-spiritual approach to management and recognizes the interplay between these factors in improving overall patient care. Palliative care teams can either focus on a specific issue of concern to the team or perform a comprehensive assessment. Consultations generally fall into two broad catego- ries: goal


=== ITEM 32: Inflammatory Myopathies ===
  chunk 0: book=Morgan & Mikhail page=1047
  text: Section: CASE DISCUSSION. CASE DISCUSSION Anesthesia for Muscle Biopsy A 16-year-old boy with progressive proximal muscle weakness is suspected of having a primary myopathy and is scheduled for biopsy of the quadriceps muscle. What other potential abnormalities should concern the anesthesiologist? The diagnosis of myopathy can be difficult to make, and the differential diagnosis may include any one of several hereditary, inflammatory, endocrine, metabolic, or toxic disorders. A muscle biopsy may be necessary to supplement clinical, laboratory, nerve conduction, and electromyographic findings a

  chunk 1: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Polymyositis & dermatomyositis page=7
  text: Section: Classification Criteria. dergo cancer screening. Earlier studies recommend against extensive evaluation for malignancy apart from history, physical exam, and basic lab tests. [23] However, more recent evidence indicates that blind testing with computer tomography of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis in asymptomatic patients may be valuable in detecting occult malignancies. [24] Classification Criteria Historically, several classification criteria have been used to identify idiopathic inflammatory myopathies, including dermatomyositis. These classifications systems include the Bohan and P

  chunk 2: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Inflammatory Myopathies page=1
  text: Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK574572 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK574572/ Topic: Inflammatory Myopathies Article Title: Biosimilars Use in Medicine for Inflammatory Diseases License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Biosimilars Use in Medicine for Inflammatory Diseases Inderbir S. Padda ; Rajat Bhatt ; Mayur Parmar . Authors Inderbir S. Padda 1 ; Rajat Bhatt 2 

  chunk 3: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Inflammatory Myopathies page=12
  text: are already being treated compared to subjects with newly diagnosed inflammatory diseases, who may feel more open to a biosimilar. [24] [22] An open-ended discussion and patient-centered approach between provider and patients regarding biosimilars, treatment options, and patient outcomes should be discussed. Biosimilars ultimately demonstrate similarity to original biologics based on their characteristics of safety, efficacy, potency, tolerability but do not share similar cost considerations. Cost and prescribing considerations can ultimately make biosimilars the choice of biotherapeutics when

  chunk 4: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Inflammatory Myopathies page=11
  text: in glargine-yfgn. The proposed predictions for reducing costs vary from $54 billion to $250 billion within the midst of the 2020s onwards. [4] [23] For the cost-saving potential and improved patient access to agents for treating inflammatory diseases, recognition of biosimilars as safe and efficacious agents by patients, primary care clinicians, specialists, and other healthcare professionals is warranted to achieve market share. [23] The recognition of biosimilars as safe alternative agents to biologics may be subdued by education on the meticulous approval criteria required of biosimilars im

  chunk 5: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Inflammatory Myopathies page=10
  text: Section: Reference drug: Insulin glargine. rtial response to a rituximab agent in sequence with a chemotherapeutic drug. Monotherapy following first-line agents: cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone (CVP) chemotherapy regimens, for low-grade, CD20-positive, B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that is stable and is not progressing. In sequence with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP), or other anthracycline-based chemotherapeutic regimens in subjects who have not been treated prior for diffuse, large B-cell, CD20-positive non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Reference drug: Insu

  chunk 6: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Aspiration Pneumonia and Pneumonitis page=3
  text: Section: Inflammatory myopathies. thies Bulbospinal muscular atrophy Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy Inflammatory myopathies Bulbospinal muscular atrophy Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy Advanced age correlates strongly with aspiration pneumonia, as many older adults experience silent microaspirations that may not be clinically apparent. [1] Among patients aged 70 or older hospitalized with pneumonia, dysphagia prevalence was reported at 91.7%, with silent aspirations occurring in over 50% of cases. However, advanced age does not directly predict the risk of aspiration pneumonia. Frailty,

  chunk 7: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Inflammatory Myopathies page=2
  text: lars or agents interchangeable with FDA-approved biological agents (reference product) was formed by Congress by The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (BPCI Act) of 2009. [1] Biosimilars aim to increase the number of biologics available at more inexpensive costs when compared to their reference products, further increasing patient access to more treatment options. [2] Similar to biologics or reference products, biosimilars are expected to meet the FDA's meticulous approval criteria, ensuring the reliability of the agent's safety, efficacy, quality, and effectiveness. [3] The FDA a

  chunk 8: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Inflammatory Myopathies page=4
  text: ctal cancer, glioblastoma multiforme, renal cell carcinoma, and cervical cancer similarly to their reference product (bevacizumab), their indications are not currently approved for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer like their reference product (bevacizumab). [9] Etanercept-ykro and etanercept-szzs are classified as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers making them biosimilar to their reference product etanercept, also a TNF blocker. Alike their reference product (etanercept), biosimilars etanercept-ykro and etane

  chunk 9: book=StatPearls: StatPearls   Inflammatory Myopathies page=5
  text: antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), inducing cell death of HER2 expressing human cells. Trastuzumab biosimilars share the same indications as their reference products, making them useful in treating HER2-overexpressing breast cancer and HER2-overexpressing stomach cancer. [12] Adalimumab-fkjp, adalimumab-afzb, adalimumab-bwwd, adalimumab-adaz, adalimumab-adbm, and adalimumab-atto are classified as a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker rendering them biosimilar to their reference product adalimumab, which is also a TNF blocker. Parallel to their reference product (adalimumab), the 


