=== [35] Approach to Hypernatremia ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1079
    Section: A. Prophylaxis Against Acute Kidney Injury in High-Risk Patients. A. Prophylaxis Against Acute Kidney Injury in High-Risk Patients Many clinicians continue to administer mannitol for kidney protection and, less frequently, to convert oliguric acute kidney failure to nonoliguric kidney failure, with the goal of lowering associated morbidity and mortality. However, there is no clinical evidence that such use of mannitol provides kidney protection, lessens the severity of AKI, or lessens the morbidity or mortality associated with AKI when compared with correction of hypovolemia and prese
  CHUNK 1: Marino ICU Book p438
    Diagnostic Approach As is the case with hypernatremia, the extracellular volume (ECV) can be high, normal, or low in hyponatremia (see Table 26.1), and the status of the ECV can be used to organ­ ize the
  CHUNK 2: StatPearls: StatPearls   Metabolic Acidosis  Approach and Anion Gap p10
    [50] The cautious use of sodium bicarbonate stems from its potential adverse effects, including hypernatremia, hypocalcemia, intracellular acidification, increased lactate production, and reduced myocardial contractility
  CHUNK 3: MGH Housestaff Manual p104
    Section: Advanced Diuresis. Advanced Diuresis Saaket Agrawal G E N E R A L P R I N C I P L E S Obtain daily standing weights, Na+ restriction 2g/day + fluid restriction 1.5-2L Loop diuretics have a sigmoidal dose-response curve (i.e. diuretic threshold effect), so double dose until adequate response is achieved Transient  in serum Cr are common in diuresis (~20% of cases in DOSE-AHF, ROSE-AHF), can be tolerated if effective decongestion. No assoc. between renal function during diuresis and biomarkers of tubular injury; rather, associated with better outcomes in HF (Circ 2018;137:2016, JCF 20
  CHUNK 4: Miller/Baby Miller p464
    Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT hypernatremia (i.e., intracellular dehydration) in patients unable to receive enteral water. Colloid solutions contain substances with large molecular weights, such as albumin or synthetic starches. Because of their greater plasma oncotic pressure, colloid solutions intravascular fluid shifts are temporary. The risks of hypertonic saline include hypernatremia and peripheral vein thrombophlebitis. Five percent dextrose is often used as a parenteral alte
  CHUNK 5: StatPearls: StatPearls   Hemorrhagic Shock Classification & Management p13
    Section: Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes. and abdominal compartment syndrome. An individualized fluid management plan should be guided by the patient’s clinical condition and medical history. This tailored approach helps prevent iatrogenic complications such as dehydration, fluid overload, electrolyte imbalances, and acid-base disturbances. Ongoing assessment, including the monitoring of vital signs, daily weights, and relevant laboratory values, combined with effective communication among the healthcare team, is essential to minimizing risks and optimizing patient outcomes. Enhancing Healt
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls: StatPearls   Metabolic Acidosis  Approach and Anion Gap p10
    Section: Treatment / Management. tes compensatory mechanisms, these responses rarely normalize the serum pH. Following this initial assessment, clinicians should calculate the anion gap, regardless of whether the serum pH appears close to normal. This calculation must be adjusted for the patient’s albumin level to ensure accuracy. An elevated corrected anion gap requires further analysis, beginning with evaluation of the delta gap to assess for the presence of concurrent metabolic processes. Additionally, the osmolar gap should be measured to identify potential toxic ingestions or unmeasured s
  CHUNK 7: Marino ICU Book p438
    Section: Hypcrtonic and Hypotonic Conditions. Hypcrtonic and Hypotonic Conditions ured sodium concentration will therefore tmderestimate the actual (aqueous phase) sodium concentration, but the difference is normally small because water makes up over 90% of plasma .. 2. In conditions where there is an abtmdance of circulating lipids and plasma proteins (e.g., severe hyperlipidemias or hyperproteinemias), the nonaqueous portion of plas­ ma will increase in volume, and can grow to 30% of the plasma volume. In this situation, the measured plasma sodium can be considerably lower than the actual so

=== [36] Approach to Hyperthermia ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1992
    Section: Both European and North American MH registries have been established to help. halothane-caffeine contracture test will require that a fresh biopsy specimen of living skeletal muscle be exposed to a caffeine, halothane, or combination caffeine–halothane bath. The halothane–caffeine contracture test may have a 10% to 20% false-positive rate, but the false-negative rate is close to zero. Very few centers worldwide perform this test. Genetic testing of patients and first-degree relatives is the more common and much more convenient current approach. Both European and North American MH regi
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p351
    Section: What is your general approach to this diagnostic dilemma?. the patient is still intubated and shows no evidence of spontaneous respiration or consciousness. What is your general approach to this diagnostic dilemma? Clues to the solution of complex clinical problems are usually found in a pertinent review of the medical and surgical history, the history of drug ingestions, the physical examination, and laboratory results. In this case, the perioperative anesthetic management should also be considered. What medical illnesses predispose a patient to delayed awakening or prolonged paralys
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p1995
    Section: SUGGESTED READINGS. SUGGESTED READINGS Arrich J, Holzer M, Havel C, Müllner M, Herkner H. Hypothermia for neuroprotection in adults after cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016; (2):CD004128. Baldo BA, Rose MA The anaesthetist, opioid analgesic drugs, and serotonin toxicity: a mechanistic and clinical review. Br J Anaesth. 2020;124:44. Campbell G, Alderson P, Smith AF, Warttig S. Warming of intravenous and irrigation fluids for preventing inadvertent perioperative hypothermia. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015;(4):CD009891. De Wel B, Claes KG. Malignant hyperth
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p351
    Malignant hyperthermia does not typically present as delayed awakening, though prolonged somnolence is not unusual
  CHUNK 4: Morgan & Mikhail p351
    Uneventful prior anesthetics do not, however, rule out malignant hyperthermia
  CHUNK 5: Morgan & Mikhail p1458
    Section: Children are more susceptible than adults to cardiac arrhythmias,. biotransformation and reliably behave as intermediate-acting muscle relaxants. Children are more susceptible than adults to cardiac arrhythmias, hyperkalemia, rhabdomyolysis, myoglobinemia, masseter spasm, and malignant hyperthermia (see Chapter 52) associated with succinylcholine. When a child experiences cardiac arrest following administration of succinylcholine, immediate treatment for hyperkalemia should be instituted. Prolonged resuscitative efforts (potentially including cardiopulmonary bypass) may be required. T
  CHUNK 6: Miller/Baby Miller p430
    Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT lactate among body tissues. The liver metabolizes approxi- mately 60% of lactate produced, with the kidneys metabo- lizing 30%. A small amount of lactate is converted back to glucose via gluconeogenesis. Causes of an elevated lactate can be divided into those related to tissue hypoxia or sys- temic hypoperfusion, or etiologies not related to hypoperfu- sion.12 (Box 22.4). Nonanion Gap Metabolic acidosis with a normal anion gap occurs when chloride repl
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls p9
    The evaluation of postoperative fever should begin with a structured and prioritized approach to rapidly identify life-threatening conditions such as sepsis, pulmonary embolism, or malignant hyperthermia, while also considering more common and benign etiologies

=== [37] Approach to Hypokalemia ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p754
    Section: Reversal of Anticoagulation. precipitous hypotension. Some surgeons will need to be informed of the extent and duration of the hypotension; others have greater situational awareness. The atrial cannula(e) is removed before the aortic cannula in case the latter must be used to rapidly administer volume to the patient. Most patients need additional volume after the termination of bypass. Administration of blood, colloids, and crystalloid is guided by observation of the left ventricle on TEE, filling pressures, and the postbypass hematocrit. A final hematocrit of 25% or greater is desira
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1079
    Section: A. Prophylaxis Against Acute Kidney Injury in High-Risk Patients. A. Prophylaxis Against Acute Kidney Injury in High-Risk Patients Many clinicians continue to administer mannitol for kidney protection and, less frequently, to convert oliguric acute kidney failure to nonoliguric kidney failure, with the goal of lowering associated morbidity and mortality. However, there is no clinical evidence that such use of mannitol provides kidney protection, lessens the severity of AKI, or lessens the morbidity or mortality associated with AKI when compared with correction of hypovolemia and prese
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p1903
    Section: Are electrolyte abnormalities seen with other types of urinary diversion?. Persistent or more severe acidosis requires treatment with sodium bicarbonate. Potassium replacement may also be required if hypokalemia is present. Are electrolyte abnormalities seen with other types of urinary diversion? Procedures employing bowel as a conduit (ileal or colonic) are less likely to result in hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis than those in which bowel functions as a reservoir. The incidence of hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis approaches 80% following ureterosigmoidostomies. Endotext (free sour
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p1992
    Section: Both European and North American MH registries have been established to help. halothane-caffeine contracture test will require that a fresh biopsy specimen of living skeletal muscle be exposed to a caffeine, halothane, or combination caffeine–halothane bath. The halothane–caffeine contracture test may have a 10% to 20% false-positive rate, but the false-negative rate is close to zero. Very few centers worldwide perform this test. Genetic testing of patients and first-degree relatives is the more common and much more convenient current approach. Both European and North American MH regi
  CHUNK 4: StatPearls: StatPearls   Hypokalemia  Causes, Diagnosis, and Treatment p9
    Section: Deterrence and Patient Education. urther consultations may be needed. Nephrologists assess and manage the underlying kidney disease causing potassium wasting and provide guidance on the appropriate treatment. Endocrinologists rule out or manage underlying endocrinological disorders. Dietitians provide dietary recommendations and ensure patients consume appropriate amounts of potassium through their diet or supplements. An interprofessional approach to hypokalemia management should be initiated early to ensure timely and appropriate management and improve outcomes. Deterrence and Patie
  CHUNK 5: Miller/Baby Miller p431
    Section: Chapter 22 Acid–Base Balance and Blood Gas Analysis. Chapter 22 Acid–Base Balance and Blood Gas Analysis unless eliminated by ventilation, can worsen any intracel- lular and extracellular acidosis. A common approach is to administer a small dose of sodium bicarbonate and then repeat the pH measurement and monitor hemodynamics to determine the impact of treatment. Metabolic Alkalosis Metabolic alkalosis is present when the pH is higher than 7.45 because of the gain of bicarbonate ions or loss of hydrogen ions. The loss of hydrogen ions is usually from the gastrointestinal tract or the 
  CHUNK 6: MGH Housestaff Manual p104
    Section: Advanced Diuresis. Advanced Diuresis Saaket Agrawal G E N E R A L P R I N C I P L E S Obtain daily standing weights, Na+ restriction 2g/day + fluid restriction 1.5-2L Loop diuretics have a sigmoidal dose-response curve (i.e. diuretic threshold effect), so double dose until adequate response is achieved Transient  in serum Cr are common in diuresis (~20% of cases in DOSE-AHF, ROSE-AHF), can be tolerated if effective decongestion. No assoc. between renal function during diuresis and biomarkers of tubular injury; rather, associated with better outcomes in HF (Circ 2018;137:2016, JCF 20
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls: StatPearls   Hemorrhagic Shock Classification & Management p8
    ng the initial hours of treatment. Fluid resuscitation should continue rapidly until signs of hypovolemia, such as low blood pressure, reduced urine output, or altered mental status, show improvement. Rapid fluid administration is unnecessary for patients with mild-to-moderate hypovolemia. Instead, fluids should be given at a rate that exceeds ongoing losses, including urine and insensible losses—typically 30 to 50 mL/h—along with any additional ongoing losses. A common approach is to administer fluids at a rate of 50 to 100 mL/h above the estimated fluid losses to achieve a positive fluid bal

=== [38] Approach to Hypomagnesemia and Hypophosphatemia ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1895
    Section: Hyperphosphatemia is generally treated with phosphate-binding antacids such as. Hyperphosphatemia is generally treated with phosphate-binding antacids such as aluminum hydroxide or aluminum carbonate. Anesthetic Considerations Although specific interactions between hyperphosphatemia and anesthesia have not been described, kidney function should be assessed, and hypocalcemia should be excluded. Hypophosphatemia is usually the result of either a negative phosphorus balance or cellular uptake of extracellular phosphorus (an intercompartmental shift). Intercompartmental shifts of phosphor
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1846
    Section: Because of its lethal potential, hyperkalemia exceeding 6 mEq/L should always. Because of its lethal potential, hyperkalemia exceeding 6 mEq/L should always be corrected. Symptomatic hypercalcemia requires rapid treatment. The most effective initial treatment is rehydration followed by brisk diuresis (urinary output 200–300 mL/h) using an intravenous saline infusion and a loop diuretic to accelerate calcium excretion. Symptomatic hypocalcemia is a medical emergency and should be treated immediately with intravenous calcium chloride (3–5 mL of a 10% solution) or calcium gluconate (10–2
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p754
    Section: Reversal of Anticoagulation. precipitous hypotension. Some surgeons will need to be informed of the extent and duration of the hypotension; others have greater situational awareness. The atrial cannula(e) is removed before the aortic cannula in case the latter must be used to rapidly administer volume to the patient. Most patients need additional volume after the termination of bypass. Administration of blood, colloids, and crystalloid is guided by observation of the left ventricle on TEE, filling pressures, and the postbypass hematocrit. A final hematocrit of 25% or greater is desira
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p1896
    Section: Anesthetic Considerations. required for intestinal phosphate absorption. Anesthetic Considerations Anesthetic management of patients with hypophosphatemia requires familiarity with its potential complications (see earlier discussion). Hyperglycemia and respiratory alkalosis should be avoided to prevent further decreases in plasma phosphorus concentration. Neuromuscular function must be carefully monitored when NMBs are given. Some patients with severe hypophosphatemia may require mechanical ventilation postoperatively because of muscle weakness. Disorders of Magnesium Balance Magnesiu
  CHUNK 4: Morgan & Mikhail p1900
    Section: Although no specific anesthetic interactions are described, coexistent electrolyte. Although no specific anesthetic interactions are described, coexistent electrolyte disturbances such as hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia, and hypocalcemia are often present and should be corrected before surgery. Isolated hypomagnesemia should be corrected before elective procedures because of its potential to cause arrhythmias. Moreover, magnesium appears to have intrinsic antiarrhythmic properties and possibly cerebral protective effects (see Chapter 26). It is frequently administered preemptively in pa
  CHUNK 5: Morgan & Mikhail p1895
    Treatment of Hypophosphatemia Oral phosphorus replacement is generally preferable to parenteral replacement because of the increased risk of phosphate precipitation with calcium, resulting in hypocalcemia, and also because of the increased risks of hyperphosphatemia, hypomagnesemia, and
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls: StatPearls   Hypercalcemia p6
    placement: Hypercalcemia can often present with other electrolytic abnormalities such as hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypophosphatemia. These abnormalities should all be appropriately repleted to maintain normal levels. Calcitonin: Calcitonin can be administered as an intramuscular or subcutaneous injection at a dose of 4 units/kg every 12 hours to acutely lower calcium levels. This hormone is effective as quickly as 2 hours after administration, but its effect only lasts approximately 4 to 7 days, limiting its use in chronic therapy. Calcitonin is often combined with other calcium-lowerin
  CHUNK 7: Marino ICU Book p773
    Section: Hypocalcemia. 756 Index ionized, 459-463, 461-4621 magnesium depletion and, 448 H ypokalemia, 428-433 clinical manifestations, 430-431 diagnostic approach, 430/ management, 431-433 metabolic alkalosis and, 381 potassium depletion, 429-430, refractory, 433 transcellular shift, 428-429 Hypomagnesemia. See also Mag­ nesium replacement protocols for, 451-452 Hyponatremia, 420-425 changes in total body sodium and water in, 4121 diagnostic approach, 421-422, 423/ hypervolemic, 422 hypovolemic, 421-422 isovolemic, 422 management, 424-425 pseudohyponatremia, 420-421 symptoms, 422-423 Hypophos

=== [39] Approach to Hyponatremia ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1867
    Section: Potentiate action of AVP. Potentiate action of AVP AVP analogues 1AVP, arginine vasopressin; CNS, central nervous system; MDMA, 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methamphetamine; NSAIDs, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs; SIADH, syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone; SSRIs, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Adapted with permission from Buffington MA, Abreo K. Hyponatremia: A review. J Intens Care Med. 2016 May;31(4):223-236. Cerebral salt wasting (CSW) is a syndrome of inappropriate renal sodium wasting and hyponatremia with polyuria and hypovolemia that may be seen
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1865
    Section: Congestive heart failure. Congestive heart failure Nephrotic syndrome Hyponatremia & Low Total Body Sodium Progressive losses of both sodium and water eventually lead to extracellular volume depletion. As the intravascular volume deficit approaches 5% to 10%, nonosmotic ADH secretion is activated (see earlier discussion). With further volume depletion, the stimuli for nonosmotic ADH release overcome any hyponatremia-induced suppression of ADH, and preservation of circulatory volume takes place at the expense of plasma osmolality. Fluid losses resulting in hyponatremia may be renal or 
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p1864
    Section: Hyponatremia invariably reflects water retention from either an absolute increase in. Adapted with permission from Rose RD. Clinical Physiology of Acid-Base and Electrolyte Disorders, 3rd ed. New York, NY: McGraw Hill; 1989. Hyponatremia invariably reflects water retention from either an absolute increase in TBW or a loss of sodium in relative excess to loss of water. The kidneys’ normal capacity to produce dilute urine with an osmolality as low as 40 mOsm/kg (specific gravity 1.001) allows them to excrete over 10 L of free water per day if necessary. Because of this tremendous reserv
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p1865
    Hyponatremia with Normal Total Body Sodium Hyponatremia in the absence of edema or hypovolemia may be seen with glucocorticoid insufficiency, hypothyroidism, drug therapy, and the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH, also referred to as
  CHUNK 4: StatPearls: StatPearls   SIADH (Syndrome of Inappropriate ADH) p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK534855 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK534855/ Topic: SIADH (Syndrome of Inappropriate ADH) Article Title: SIADH (Syndrome of Inappropriate ADH) License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Cerebral Salt Wasting Syndrome Walter A. Hall ; William Thorell . Authors Walter A. Hall 1 ; William Thorell 2 . Last Update: June 2, 2025 . Continui
  CHUNK 5: Miller/Baby Miller p552
    Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS surgical procedures, epidural analgesia can help manage perioperative pain. When placing an epidural in patients with pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas, consider giving premedication to reduce anxiety, avoiding epi- nephrine in the test dose, and running low-concentration local anesthetic intraoperatively to avoid significant vasodilation and sympathectomy-induced hemodynamic lability. Multiple common perioperative medications have the potential to trigger catecholamine surges. Anesthesia pro
  CHUNK 6: Miller/Baby Miller p940
    Section: Spine, in oblique view, 290f. Spine, in oblique view, 290f Spine surgery, 563 anesthetic technique, 564 awareness during, 564 blood conservation, 565 electromyograms, 567 intraoperative spinal cord monitoring, 565 neuraxial anesthesia contraindication, 296 positioning for, 565 transcranial motor evoked potentials, vision loss in, 568 wake-up test, 567 Spirometry, in chronic pulmonary disease, 478, 478f–479f SPV. See Systolic pressure variation; Systolic pressure variation SSEPs. See Somatosensory evoked potentials; Somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs) Stacking breaths, 359f Stage N
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls: StatPearls   SIADH (Syndrome of Inappropriate ADH) p4
    Section: ADH, antidiuretic hormone; CNS, central nervous system. hing feature is the patient’s volume status. In SIADH, patients are typically euvolemic or mildly hypervolemic due to retained free water, whereas in CSW, patients are hypovolemic compared to the hypovolemic picture of CSW. [10] [11] Other potential causes of hyponatremia should also be sought, including polydipsia, renal disease, use of diuretics, heart failure, hypothyroidism, malignancies, hormone deficiency, and pseudohyponatremia. Many times, CSW becomes a diagnosis of exclusion after labs reveal serum hyponatremia with incr

=== [40] Approach to Hypothermia ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p746
    Section: The use of uncorrected gas tensions during hypothermia—α-stat management—is. maintaining a constant CO2 tension of 40 mm Hg and a constant pH of 7.40 during hypothermia is referred to as pH-stat management. During hypothermic CPB, pH-stat management, which may require adding CO2 to the oxygenator gas inflow to maintain a constant PaCO2, increases total blood CO2 content. Under these conditions, cerebral blood flow increases (due to increased CO2 tension relative to α-stat management) more than is required based on oxygen consumption. Increased cerebral blood flow is useful to increase
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1995
    Section: SUGGESTED READINGS. SUGGESTED READINGS Arrich J, Holzer M, Havel C, Müllner M, Herkner H. Hypothermia for neuroprotection in adults after cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016; (2):CD004128. Baldo BA, Rose MA The anaesthetist, opioid analgesic drugs, and serotonin toxicity: a mechanistic and clinical review. Br J Anaesth. 2020;124:44. Campbell G, Alderson P, Smith AF, Warttig S. Warming of intravenous and irrigation fluids for preventing inadvertent perioperative hypothermia. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015;(4):CD009891. De Wel B, Claes KG. Malignant hyperth
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p746
    The basis of this approach is that preservation of normal protein function depends on maintaining a constant state of intracellular electroneutrality (the balance of charges on proteins)
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p1139
    Section: Radical retropubic prostatectomy may be accompanied by sufficient operative. with the seminal vesicles, ejaculatory ducts, and part of the bladder neck. A “nerve- sparing” technique may be used for smaller, well-defined lesions with the intention of preserving sexual function. Following prostatectomy, the remaining bladder neck is anastomosed directly to the urethra over an indwelling urinary catheter. The surgeon may ask for intravenous administration of indigo carmine for visualization of the ureters, and this dye can be associated with hypertension or hypotension. Radical retropubi
  CHUNK 4: Morgan & Mikhail p1229
    Section: C. Postoperative. and decreased intravascular volume. In this circumstance, ketamine or etomidate can be recommended for induction of anesthesia. The possibility of coexistent primary adrenal insufficiency should be considered in cases of refractory hypotension. Other potential coexisting conditions include hypoglycemia, anemia, hyponatremia, difficulty during intubation because of a large tongue, and hypothermia from a low basal metabolic rate. C. Postoperative Recovery from general anesthesia may be delayed in hypothyroid patients by hypothermia, respiratory depression, or slowed dr
  CHUNK 5: Morgan & Mikhail p778
    Section: CSF pressure following experimental cross-clamping of the aorta may explain how a. hypertension, and ventricular failure. Partial CPB has the disadvantage of requiring heparinization, which increases blood loss. Using a heparin-coated shunt precludes the need for heparinization. It is usually positioned proximally in the left ventricular apex and distally in a femoral artery. Other therapeutic measures that may be protective of the spinal cord include methylprednisolone, mild hypothermia, mannitol, and drainage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to reduce the CSF pressure. The efficacy of m
  CHUNK 6: Morgan & Mikhail p1147
    Section: If combined general–epidural anesthesia is employed, administration of epidural. very vascular and often very large. Two large-bore intravenous lines with an indwelling peripheral arterial catheter are typically used. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), esophageal Doppler, or peripheral pulse wave analysis (Lidco or Vigileo) are often used for hemodynamic monitoring. We use TEE in all patients with vena cava thrombus. Retraction of the inferior vena cava may be associated with transient arterial hypotension. Only brief periods of controlled hypotension should be used to reduce blo
  CHUNK 7: Morgan & Mikhail p1830
    Section: POSTOPERATIVE PERIOD. POSTOPERATIVE PERIOD Immediate Postoperative Care A. Strategies to Minimize Postoperative Shivering The primary cause of postoperative shivering is perioperative hypothermia, though other, nonthermoregulatory mechanisms may be involved. Postoperative shivering can greatly increase oxygen consumption, catecholamine release, cardiac output, heart rate, blood pressure, and intracranial and intraocular pressure. This increases cardiovascular morbidity, especially in older adult patients, and increases PACU length of stay and perioperative cost. Shivering is uncommon 

=== [41] Approach to Insomnia and Sleep Requests ===
  CHUNK 0: StatPearls: StatPearls   Obstructive Sleep Apnea  Diagnosis p8
    Section: Evaluation of Sleep Disorders in Alzheimer Disease. technology, have been validated to identify central sleep apnea in adults. [57] Evaluation of Sleep Disorders in Alzheimer Disease Inquiring about sleep disturbances in patients with dementia on routine clinic visits is helpful. A detailed history of sleep schedules may be needed to arrive at the diagnosis. History regarding outdoor time exposure, caffeine, alcohol, smoking, presence of nighttime disturbances (especially in a nursing home), and physical activity needs to be obtained. Additional evaluation regarding RLS, periodic limb
  CHUNK 1: StatPearls: StatPearls   Obstructive Sleep Apnea  Diagnosis p12
    Section: Complications from Lack of Treatment. with an increased risk of dementia. [88] Sleep disorders are known to worsen with the worsening of the disease, and the intensification at the later stage of the disease is a predictive factor for mortality. [58] . The overall survival in a patient with Alzheimer disease is variable and depends on the extent of impairment, but in many cases, it is approximately 4 to 6 years. [89] Addressing sleep disorders in patients with neurodegenerative diseases involves navigating the complications from treatment and from the lack of treatment. Each approach 
  CHUNK 2: StatPearls: StatPearls   Obstructive Sleep Apnea  Diagnosis p13
    Section: Pearls and Other Issues. dementia and other related neurodegenerative diseases. Pearls and Other Issues Clinical pearls for managing sleep disorders in patients with neurodegenerative diseases offer valuable insights, and include the following: There remains a high prevalence of sleep disorders in patients with neurodegenerative conditions. Promptly recognizing and managing sleep disturbances can significantly impact overall patient outcomes and, in some cases, delay the progression of the neurodegenerative condition. Inadequate dopamine agonism in Parkinson disease can lead to insomn
  CHUNK 3: StatPearls: StatPearls   Obstructive Sleep Apnea  Diagnosis p6
    Section: Evaluation of Sleep Disorders in Parkinson Disease. han 70 years of age, and some of these drugs have been shown to reduce orexin-A levels, which could potentially explain their connection to sleep attacks. [46] Patients should be screened for other associated conditions affecting sleep, such as depression, OSA, RBD, and RLS. Non-familial RLS can be seen commonly in patients with Parkinson disease. [27] Repeated episodes of sleep-related vocalization and complex motor behaviors that occur during sleep should increase the suspicion of RBD in patients with Parkinson disease. These movem
  CHUNK 4: MGH Housestaff Manual p225
    Section: Primary Care. Primary Care Sleep Medicine Allen Hodge I N S O M N I A (PCOI) 35-50% of population; chronic insomnia >3mo. difficulty initiating or maintaining sleep and compromised daytime function (UTD) Hx: evaluate chronicity, stressors, effect on fxn/mood, # awakenings and triggers, sleep hygiene; meds, PMH, sleep log for 1w Ddx: Medical: r/o pain, primary medical condition (e.g., PSYCH: PTSD, mood d/o; PULM: COPD, asthma; CV: CHF; GI: GERD; GU: nocturia), SUDs, medications (e.g., stimulants, steroids, BBs, SSRIs, SNRIs, OCPs, chronic opioids) Primary sleep d/o: insufficient sleep 
  CHUNK 5: Miller/Baby Miller p49
    Section: Chapter 3 Clinician Well-Being. Chapter 3 Clinician Well-Being individual process, with success related to the sustain- ability of one's choices. One size does not fit all. Adequate nutrition, hydration, exercise, and sleep are the cornerstones of self-care and fit into the “basics” level of the health professional wellness hierarchy (see Fig 3.2). Yet even these can prove difficult to achieve consistently, as most clinicians become conditioned to ignore or defer their own needs in response to work demands. Although meeting basic needs can be considered personal strate- gies, they sho
  CHUNK 6: Miller/Baby Miller p655
    Section: Chapter 34 Pediatrics. Chapter 34 Pediatrics in the vessels of the retina, accompanied by wide swings in oxygen tension such as those seen in cardiopulmonary instability with ventilated premature infants with respira- tory distress syndrome, PDA, sepsis, apnea/bradycardia, and other problems associated with prematurity. Thus Spo2 is maintained at 88% to 93% in many premature infants, with resulting oxygen tensions of 50 to 70 mm Hg targeted. Excessive oxygen tensions, as may be seen with general endotracheal anesthesia, are to be avoided, even if short-lived. The challenge for the ane
  CHUNK 7: Miller/Baby Miller p47
    Section: Chapter 3 Clinician Well-Being. Chapter 3 Clinician Well-Being accentuated the need for a national strategy to protect their well-being. The NAM recommends creating positive work and learning environments to foster professional well-being in medicine,1 underscoring the importance of inclusive environments that allow all clinicians to thrive. The recognition that structural racism and health inequities exist in medicine and the medical community must be acknowledged and addressed. Bias and discrimination occur regularly in medicine and can create a harsh work environment that can lead 

=== [42] Approach to Nausea and Vomiting ===
  CHUNK 0: Miller/Baby Miller p338
    Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT opioid administered, although reducing the dose reduces the likelihood of pruritus, and lipophilic agents (such as fenta- nyl) will result in a shorter duration of itching. Naloxone, naltrexone, or the partial agonist nalbuphine can be used for treatment. Ondansetron and propofol are also useful antipruritic therapies. The rate of shivering is as frequent as 55%93 and is more related to epidural than to spinal anesthesia. One postu- lated cause is the 
  CHUNK 1: Miller/Baby Miller p866
    Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE Palliative care teams assess and treat the patient's symptoms, discuss goals of care, and assess and treat the patient's and family's psychosocial issues. The palliative care team takes a biopsychosocial-spiritual approach to management and recognizes the interplay between these factors in improving overall patient care. Palliative care teams can either focus on a specific issue of concern to the team or perform a comprehensive assessment. Consultations generally fall into two broad catego- ries: goal
  CHUNK 2: Miller/Baby Miller p551
    Section: Chapter 29 Nutritional, Gastrointestinal, and Endocrine Disease. Chapter 29 Nutritional, Gastrointestinal, and Endocrine Disease tumors, when hormonally active, can produce and release large amounts of catecholamines and metanephrines. The signs and symptoms of hormonally active pheo- chromocytomas and paragangliomas are caused by sympathetic nervous system hyperactivity. The classic triad includes paroxysmal headaches (hypertension), tachycardia, and diaphoresis. Other common symptoms include heat intolerance, weight loss, chest discomfort, nausea and vomiting, orthostatic hypotensio
  CHUNK 3: Miller/Baby Miller p734
    Section: Section V THE RECOVERY PERIOD. Section V THE RECOVERY PERIOD POSTOPERATIVE NAUSEA AND VOMITING Without prophylactic intervention, roughly one-third of patients who undergo inhalational anesthesia will develop postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) (range, 10%–80%).42 The consequences of PONV include delayed discharge from the PACU, unanticipated hospital admission, increased incidence of pulmonary aspiration, and significant postoperative discomfort. The ability to identify high-risk patients for prophylactic intervention can significantly improve the quality of patient care and sat
  CHUNK 4: Miller/Baby Miller p699
    Section: Chapter 37 Outpatient Anesthesia. Chapter 37 Outpatient Anesthesia is postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV). Spinal anesthesia can be used for lower extremity orthopedic surgeries. The potential benefits of spinal anesthesia for outpatient surgery include no need for airway instru- mentation (unless complicated by a total spinal) and decreased risk of PONV.17 Although spinal anesthesia also provides postoperative analgesia, prolonged motor block- ade can delay discharge (also see Chapter 17). Peripheral nerve blocks can provide surgical anes- thesia, postoperative analgesia, or bot
  CHUNK 5: Miller/Baby Miller p250
    Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT Though ventilation via a mask is generally avoided with RSI, the use of positive pressure less than 20 cm H2O (called modified RSI) should minimize the risk of gastric insufflation and may be needed if the patient develops hypoxemia before tracheal intubation. Although RSI with cricoid pressure has been used for several decades and is a standard approach, a 2015 metaanalysis did not demonstrate a measurable impact of cricoid pressure on clinical outcom
  CHUNK 6: Miller/Baby Miller p562
    Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS lacking.12 Hypothermia has been investigated extensively as a method of cerebral protection during acute injury. Although numerous animal studies have supported tem- perature reduction to reduce ischemic injury, several large prospective, randomized trials of hypothermia in aneurysm surgery and traumatic brain injury have failed to reproduce a consistent clinical benefit to date.3 Cooling of patients with return of spontaneous circulation after cardiac arrest has been shown to improve neurologic
  CHUNK 7: Miller/Baby Miller p857
    Section: Chapter 46 Quality and Patient Safety in Anesthesia Care. VI Chapter 46 Quality and Patient Safety in Anesthesia Care More than likely, this type of improvement is a result of all disciplines working together. Process Measures A major obstacle to anesthesia quality is a clear under- standing of how anesthetic interventions affect patient outcomes. Because much of the patient's postoperative course lies outside the operating room, understanding how a patient's clinical course is affected by alterations in anesthesia care has been historically challenging. Early attempts to improve anes

=== [43] Approach to Oliguria and Low Urine Output ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1106
    Section: Acute Kidney Failure. Acute Kidney Failure This syndrome is a rapid deterioration in kidney function that results in the retention of nitrogenous waste products (azotemia). These substances, many of which behave as toxins, are byproducts of protein and amino acid metabolism. Impaired kidney metabolic activity may contribute to widespread organ dysfunction (see Chapter 30). Kidney failure can be classified as prerenal, renal, and postrenal, depending on its cause(s), and the initial therapeutic approach varies accordingly (see Figure 31–1 and Table 31–4). Prerenal kidney failure result
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1079
    Section: A. Prophylaxis Against Acute Kidney Injury in High-Risk Patients. A. Prophylaxis Against Acute Kidney Injury in High-Risk Patients Many clinicians continue to administer mannitol for kidney protection and, less frequently, to convert oliguric acute kidney failure to nonoliguric kidney failure, with the goal of lowering associated morbidity and mortality. However, there is no clinical evidence that such use of mannitol provides kidney protection, lessens the severity of AKI, or lessens the morbidity or mortality associated with AKI when compared with correction of hypovolemia and prese
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p2147
    Section: Hg in adults or <2 SD below normal value for age). Hg in adults or <2 SD below normal value for age) S o2 >70%4 Cardiac index4 >3.5 L/min per m2 Organ dysfunction variables Arterial hypoxemia (PaO2/FiO2 < 300) Acute oliguria (urine output <0.5 mL/kg/h or 45 mmol/L for at least 2 h) Creatinine increase >0.5 mg/dL Coagulation abnormalities (INR >1.5 or aPTT >60 s) Ileus (absent bowel sounds) Thrombocytopenia (platelet count <100,000/μL) Hyperbilirubinemia (plasma total bilirubin >4 mg/dL or 70 mmol/L) Tissue perfusion variables Hyperlactatemia (>1 mmol/L) Decreased capillary refill or m
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p1080
    Section: LOOP DIURETICS. kidney function. LOOP DIURETICS The loop diuretics include furosemide (Lasix), bumetanide (Bumex), ethacrynic acid (Edecrin), and torsemide (Demadex). All loop diuretics inhibit Na+ and Cl- reabsorption in the thick ascending limb. Sodium reabsorption at that site requires that all four sites on the Na+–K+–2Clluminal carrier protein be occupied. Loop diuretics compete with Clfor its binding site on the carrier protein (see Figure 30–4). With a maximal effect, they can promote excretion of 15% to 20% of the filtered sodium load. Both urinary-concentrating and urinary-di
  CHUNK 4: Stanford CA-1 p47
    Section: (mEq/L) K+ (mEq/L). (mEq/L) K+ (mEq/L) (g/L) NS LR 28 (lactate) 27 (acetate) • Preferred in brain injury/swelling • Preferred for diluting pRBCs • In large volumes produces hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis • Hyperchloremia ➔low GFR and risk AKI • More physiologic (“balanced • Lactate is converted to HCO3 - by liver • Watch K+ in renal patients • Ca2+ may interfere with citrate’s chelating properties of pRBCs (debated if this is clinically relevant) Initial intravascular volume resuscitation with crystalloid administration inadequate or when you expect to give over 3-4L of crystalloid
  CHUNK 5: Morgan & Mikhail p2155
    Section: Antibiotic treatment usually is initiated before pathogens are identified but only after. complications such as ARDS, kidney failure, gastrointestinal bleeding, and DIC. Antibiotic treatment usually is initiated before pathogens are identified but only after adequate cultures are obtained (commonly, blood, urine, wounds, and sputum). Pending the results of cultures and tests of antibiotic sensitivity, combination therapy with two or more antibiotics is generally indicated. The choice depends on which organisms are seen with the greatest frequency in one’s medical center. Additional di
  CHUNK 6: Society Guideline: Guideline   KDIGO 2012 AKI p38
    Section: SCr and decrease in GFR meets the AKD criteria but not AKI. meet AKI or AKD criteria; ‘‘Yes-D’’ indicates that increase in SCr and decrease in GFR meets the AKD criteria but not AKI criteria; and ‘‘Yes-I’’ indicates that increase in SCr meets AKI criteria. Question 3 requires repeat ascertainment of GFR/ SCr 3 months after the index measure. ‘‘Yes’’ indicates GFR 460, indicating NKD. No indicates GFR o60, and based on prior level of GFR, may indicate stable, new, or worse CKD. Oliguria as a measure of kidney function Although urine ﬂow rate is a poor measure of kidney function, oligur
  CHUNK 7: Miller/Baby Miller p466
    Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT Strategies for fluid management then shifted towards a target of “net-zero” weight balance after one seminal trial in patients undergoing elective colorectal surgery found increased postsurgical morbidity among patients who were randomized to a standard intraoperative and postoperative fluid regimen, compared with a restricted regimen with a goal of unchanged body weight.35 A 2016 consensus statement from the Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) Soci

=== [44] Approach to Palpitations ===
  CHUNK 0: StatPearls: StatPearls   Atrial Fibrillation and Atrial Flutter p7
    Section: Complications associated with AF include the following: [30]. hs-CRP) and troponins have been implicated with adverse outcomes in AF patients. [29] Complications associated with AF include the following: [30] Thromboembolism including stroke New-onset heart failure or worsening of existing heart failure Acute myocardial infarction Hemodynamic instability leading to cardiogenic shock Sudden death from Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome Tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy Deterrence and Patient Education Atrial fibrillation is the most common cardiac arrhythmia associated with an increased r
  CHUNK 1: StatPearls: StatPearls   Pheochromocytoma & Paraganglioma p17
    portion, 65%, of individuals initially presenting with metastatic disease will experience recurrent metastatic disease. Those with metastatic disease exhibit a five-year survival rate ranging between 34% and 60%, with recurrence typically occurring around 5.5 years. Notably, 31% of individuals initially diagnosed with suspected benign disease may encounter recurrence, manifesting even 50 years after the initial diagnosis. Consequently, annual lifelong surveillance is imperative. Paragangliomas are rare tumors that arise from the extra-adrenal chromaffin cells of the sympathetic nervous system.
  CHUNK 2: StatPearls: StatPearls   Sarcoidosis p6
    Section: Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes. ea, chest pain, palpitations, syncope, visual disturbances, neurologic symptoms, or persistent fatigue. The early recognition of cardiac, ocular, neurologic, and progressive pulmonary sarcoidosis is essential to prevent irreversible organ damage. Smoking cessation and avoidance of environmental or occupational lung irritants should be encouraged. Patients should be counseled regarding the risk of hypercalcemia and advised to avoid unnecessary vitamin D or calcium supplementation unless directed by a clinician. Education should emphasize medication a
  CHUNK 3: Stanford CA-1 p43
    Section: STEP 1: Assess the Likelihood of Airway Management Problems. STEP 1: Assess the Likelihood of Airway Management Problems If at least 3 of the following predictors of difficult or impossible face mask ventilation are present, be wary… And of course… history of prior difficulty DIFFICULT Mask Ventilation • Mallampati III or IV • Mandibular protrusion decreased • Beard • Obesity (BMI >30 kg/m2) • Age >57-58 • Teeth (lack of) • Snoring Difficult Mask Ventilation IMPOSSIBLE Mask Ventilation Mallampati III-IV OSA or Upper Airway Surgery Radiation changes (neck) STEP 1: Assess the Likelihood
  CHUNK 4: Stanford CA-1 p42
    Section: Difficult Airway Algorithm. Difficult Airway Algorithm According to the ASA, "a difficult airway is defined as the clinical situation in which a conventionally trained anesthesiologist experiences difficulty with facemask ventilation of the upper airway, difficulty with tracheal intubation, or both. The difficult airway represents a complex interaction between patient factors, the clinical setting, and the skills of the practitioner.” *Remember: patients do not die from an inability to intubate the trachea… they die from a lack of oxygenation. If the pulse ox is dropping, fall back to
  CHUNK 5: MGH Housestaff Manual p49
    Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care Interpretation of Chest Imaging Sanjeethan Baksh C H E S T X-R A Y Systematic approach to CXR (ABCDEF approach): 1. (A)ssess technical quality and (A)irways: Rotation: ensure spinous process bisect btwn medial end of clavicles Lung volumes: adequate inspiratory effort is 9-10 posterior ribs Penetration: good when vertebral bodies visible behind cardiac silhouette Airways: look for narrowing, deviation, foreign bodies. ITP pushes trachea away (PTX). ITP pulls trachea towards (atelectasis/plugging). Always compare previous studies. 
  CHUNK 6: MGH Housestaff Manual p22
    Section: Non-Invasive Cardiac Testing. Non-Invasive Cardiac Testing Lucas Cofer B A S I C S Non-invasive cardiac testing includes stress/functional and anatomic testing. The best approach to testing depends upon: 1) the clinical question being asked, 2) symptom (often chest pain) acuity, 3) baseline CVD risk/known CAD hx, and 4) patient-specific contraindications. R O L E O F N O NI N V A S I V E C A R D I A C T E S T I N G I N C H E S T P A I N E V A L U A T I O N Source: 2021 ACC/AHA Guidelines for Evaluation and Diagnosis of Chest Pain (Circ 2021;144:e368-e454) Deciding between CCTA (anatom
  CHUNK 7: Stanford CA-1 p44
    Section: STEP 4: Awake vs. Post-induction Algorithms. STEP 4: Awake vs. Post-induction Algorithms Awake Options Awake Intubation – key is topicalization • Non-invasive options: • Conventionally, fiberoptic intubation • Also consider laryngoscopy (direct, video) • Topicalize airway with local anesthetic or perform select nerve blocks • A fully-awake patient can tolerate a Glidescope if the airway is properly • Invasive options: • Tracheostomy • Cricothyroidotomy • Retrograde intubation Airway topicalization There are many ways to topicalize the airway. Whichever method you choose, make sure to 

=== [45] Approach to Supratherapeutic INR and Bleeding ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1967
    Section: Parasitic diseases that can be transmitted by transfusion include malaria, toxoplasmosis,. Parasitic diseases that can be transmitted by transfusion include malaria, toxoplasmosis, and Chagas disease. Such cases are very rare in developed countries. Bacterial Infections Bacterial contamination of blood products is the second leading cause of transfusion-associated mortality. The prevalence of positive bacterial cultures in blood products ranges from 1:2000 for platelets to 1:7000 for PRBCs and may be due to donor bacteremia or to inadequate antisepsis during phlebotomy. The prevalence
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1184
    Section: The effects of hepatic cirrhosis on pulmonary arterioles may result in. The effects of hepatic cirrhosis on pulmonary arterioles may result in vasodilation, causing shunts and chronic hypoxemia, or conversely lead to pulmonary vasoconstriction and medial hyperplasia, causing an increase in vascular resistance and pulmonary hypertension. Hepatorenal syndrome is a functional renal defect in patients with cirrhosis that usually follows gastrointestinal bleeding, aggressive diuresis, sepsis, or major surgery. It is characterized by progressive oliguria with avid sodium retention, azotemia
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p1299
    Section: Patients at significantly increased risk of bleeding may be managed with mechanical. patient, the use of pharmacological anticoagulants must be balanced against the risk of bleeding. For patients at increased risk for DVT but having “normal” bleeding risk, low-dose subcutaneous unfractionated heparin (LUFH), warfarin, or low-molecular- weight heparin (LMWH) may be employed in addition to mechanical prophylaxis. Patients at significantly increased risk of bleeding may be managed with mechanical prophylaxis alone until bleeding risk decreases. In general, anticoagulants are started on t
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p1155
    Section: CHAPTER 33. CHAPTER 33 Hepatic Physiology & Anesthesia Michael Ramsay, MD, FRCA KEY CONCEPTS The hepatic artery, coming directly off the celiac trunk, supplies approximately 30% of the blood supply and 50% to 70% of the liver’s oxygen requirements, and the portal vein supplies 70% of the blood supply and the remaining 50% or less of oxygen requirements. All coagulation factors, with the exception of factor VIII and von Willebrand factor, are produced by the liver. Vitamin K is a necessary cofactor in the synthesis of prothrombin (factor II) and factors VII, IX, and X. Many “liver func
  CHUNK 4: Morgan & Mikhail p1299
    Patients on warfarin therapy should not receive a neuraxial block unless the international normalized ratio (INR) is normal, and catheters should be removed when the INR is 1.5 or lower
  CHUNK 5: Society Guideline: Guideline   ACC AHA 2023 Atrial Fibrillation p50
    Section: 6.7. Periprocedural Management. e50 2023 Guideline for the Diagnosis and Management of Atrial Fibrillation 6.7. Periprocedural Management Recommendations for Periprocedural Management Referenced studies that support the recommendations are summarized in the Online Data Supplement. 1. In patients with AF (excluding those with recent stroke or TIA, or a mechanical valve) and on oral anticoagulation with either warfarin* or DOAC† who are scheduled to undergo an invasive procedure or surgery, temporary cessation of oral anticoagulation without bridging anticoagulation is recommended.1–4 2
  CHUNK 6: Society Guideline: Guideline   ACC AHA 2023 Atrial Fibrillation p110
    Section: AF, evaluation and optimization of cardiovascular. e110 2023 Guideline for the Diagnosis and Management of Atrial Fibrillation cancer therapies associated with a higher risk of AF, evaluation and optimization of cardiovascular risk factors or disease by a cardiologist could be beneficial in decreasing incident and recurrent AF and associated cardiovascular events, although no data are available specifically in patients with can- cer. Furthermore, elevated natriuretic peptides or a history of previous AF can identify patients at higher risk of AF after major thoracic cancer surgery.26,
  CHUNK 7: Society Guideline: Guideline   ACC AHA 2023 Atrial Fibrillation p29
    Section: CDS-AF (clinical decision support tool for stroke. e29 2023 Guideline for the Diagnosis and Management of Atrial Fibrillation management program specific to AF was associ- ated with proportionately more days alive and out of hospital but not prolonged event-free survival relative to standard management.12 On the other hand, data on technology-based clinical decision support systems are mixed, with a reduction in stroke and thromboembolism in the mAF-App 2 (Mobile Health Technology for Improved Screening and Optimized Integrated Care in Atrial Fibrillation) trial5 and improved anticoag

=== [46] Approach to Suspected DVT and Limb Swelling ===
  CHUNK 0: StatPearls: StatPearls   Deep vein thrombosis  diagnosis and treatment p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK507708 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK507708/ Topic: Deep vein thrombosis: diagnosis and treatment Article Title: Deep vein thrombosis: diagnosis and treatment License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Deep Venous Thrombosis Sheikh M. Waheed ; Pujitha Kudaravalli ; David T. Hotwagner . Authors Sheikh M. Waheed 1 ; Pujitha Kudaravalli
  CHUNK 1: StatPearls: StatPearls   Deep vein thrombosis  diagnosis and treatment p5
    Section: Pain (50% of patients). ombosis. [30] Pain (50% of patients) Swelling (70% of patients) Limb edema (may be unilateral or bilateral if the thrombus extends to pelvic veins) Red and hot skin with dilated veins The following veins are categorized as deep veins according to the Clinical-Etiology-Anatomy-Pathophysiology (CEAP) classification: 1. inferior vena cava, 2. common iliac, 3. internal and external iliac, 4. pelvic veins, including a. gonadal, and b. broad ligament veins, 5. common femoral, 6. deep femoral vein, 7. femoral, 8. popliteal, 9. paired crural veins of anterior and poste
  CHUNK 2: MGH Housestaff Manual p54
    Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care VTE Diagnostics Daniel Restifo C L I N I C A L M A N I F E S T A T I O N S Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT) S/Sx: pain, warmth, erythema or cyanosis, edema (esp. asymm.), palpable cord, venous distention, Homan’s sign (sudden dorsiflexion of ankle w/ knee flexed to 30˚  pain in upper calf); none Sn/Sp (JAMA 1998;279:1094); can be asx Types: proximal = iliac, femoral, popliteal veins; distal = calf veins below knee (ant./post. tibial, peroneal, soleal, gastrocnemius) o Massive iliofemoral DVT: phlegmasia alba dolens (edema, pain)  phlegm
  CHUNK 3: Society Guideline: Guideline   CHEST 2021 VTE Antithrombotic p9
    Section: Inc.), panelists without a primary COI voted on whether to approve. minimize group interaction bias and to maintain anonymity among respondents. Using an online survey (SurveyMonkey; Momentive, Inc.), panelists without a primary COI voted on whether to approve each guidance statement and formal remark. Each panelist could also provide open-ended feedback on each recommendation with suggested wording edits or general remarks. The same system was used to vote on endorsing guidance statements carried forward from AT9 and the 1st update. To achieve consensus and be included in the ﬁnal ma
  CHUNK 4: StatPearls: StatPearls   Pulmonary embolism  diagnosis and treatment p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK560551 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK560551/ Topic: Pulmonary embolism: diagnosis and treatment Article Title: Acute Pulmonary Embolism License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Acute Pulmonary Embolism Vrinda Vyas ; Abdulghani Sankari ; Amandeep Goyal . Authors Vrinda Vyas 1 ; Abdulghani Sankari 2 ; Amandeep Goyal 3 . Last Update: 
  CHUNK 5: StatPearls: StatPearls   Heparin induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) p3
    may trigger the formation of IgG, IgA, or IgM antibodies specific to the heparin-PF4 complex. HIT can only occur if IgG, while attached to the heparin-PF4 complex, binds to the FC receptor on the platelet surface and leads to platelet activation. Activated platelets then release pro-thrombotic substances (such as thrombin) and PF4. As IgG activates more platelets, more PF4 is released forming more complexes with heparin, thus activating more platelets. This creates a severely hypercoagulable state and a continuous cycle that can only be broken when heparin is discontinued, and appropriate trea
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls p10
    ctrolyte disturbances. Liver Function Tests:- Assess for hepatic dysfunction, cholangitis, or ischemic hepatitis (“shock liver”). Coagulation Profile:- Evaluate for disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), sepsis-induced coagulopathy, or hepatic synthetic dysfunction Venous Blood Gas (VBG) with Lactate:- Elevated lactate suggests tissue hypoperfusion and is an early marker of sepsis severity. Used to guide fluid resuscitation and resuscitative endpoints. Blood cultures: Obtain at least two sets from different sites, ideally before antibiotic initiation. Urine Culture: Especially in cathet
  CHUNK 7: Morgan & Mikhail p1139
    Section: Radical retropubic prostatectomy may be accompanied by sufficient operative. with the seminal vesicles, ejaculatory ducts, and part of the bladder neck. A “nerve- sparing” technique may be used for smaller, well-defined lesions with the intention of preserving sexual function. Following prostatectomy, the remaining bladder neck is anastomosed directly to the urethra over an indwelling urinary catheter. The surgeon may ask for intravenous administration of indigo carmine for visualization of the ureters, and this dye can be associated with hypertension or hypotension. Radical retropubi

=== [47] Approach to Thrombocytopenia ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1316
    Section: How would the inability to transfuse blood affect intraoperative monitoring. long as their blood maintains continuity with their circulatory systems at all times. For example, up to 4 units of blood could be drawn from the patient immediately before surgery and kept in anticoagulant-containing bags that maintain a constant link to the patient’s body. The blood could be replaced by an acceptable colloid or crystalloid solution then reinfused as needed during surgery. How would the inability to transfuse blood affect intraoperative monitoring decisions? Hemipelvectomy involves radical r
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1967
    Section: Parasitic diseases that can be transmitted by transfusion include malaria, toxoplasmosis,. Parasitic diseases that can be transmitted by transfusion include malaria, toxoplasmosis, and Chagas disease. Such cases are very rare in developed countries. Bacterial Infections Bacterial contamination of blood products is the second leading cause of transfusion-associated mortality. The prevalence of positive bacterial cultures in blood products ranges from 1:2000 for platelets to 1:7000 for PRBCs and may be due to donor bacteremia or to inadequate antisepsis during phlebotomy. The prevalence
  CHUNK 2: StatPearls: StatPearls   Heparin induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK482330 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK482330/ Topic: Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) Article Title: Heparin-Induced Thrombocytopenia License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Heparin-Induced Thrombocytopenia Diala Nicolas ; Samar Nicolas ; Alexander Hodgens ; Mirembe Reed . Authors Diala Nicolas 1 ; Samar Nicolas 2 ; Alexander
  CHUNK 3: MGH Housestaff Manual p261
    Section: Max Quinn. Max Quinn I N D I C A T I O N S Diagnostic: to establish etiology of ≥1cm pleural effusion visualized by US (not necessary for small effusions w/ probable alternative dx) pleural effusions are visible on CXR when >200mL of fluid is present (i.e. lower sensitivity) Therapeutic: large effusions  resp compromise or sx (e.g., dyspnea), hemothorax, empyema, complicated parapneumonic effusion Relative Contraindications: no absolute (Chest 2013;144:456) Consider reversing coagulopathy (INR >1.5, recent LMWH) or thrombocytopenia (plt <50k), but no data to support Skin infection (c
  CHUNK 4: Miller/Baby Miller p471
    Section: Chapter 25 Blood Therapy. Chapter 25 Blood Therapy Antibody Screen In addition to determining a patient's blood type, an antibody screen is performed using the recipient's serum to identify the presence of antibodies against common minor RBC surface antigens. It is a simple agglutination process in which the recipient's serum is placed in wells with known common RBC surface antigens; the presence of agglutination indicates the likely presence of an anti- body. The “type and screen” is typically used when the surgical procedure is unlikely to require transfusion of blood (e.g., many la
  CHUNK 5: Miller/Baby Miller p709
    Section: Chapter 38 Anesthesia for Procedures in Nonoperating Room Locations. IV Chapter 38 Anesthesia for Procedures in Nonoperating Room Locations Anesthesia Evaluation and Management The anesthesia requirements of patients undergoing IR procedures can vary greatly. Because of the minimally invasive nature, many procedures in the IR suites are performed with minimal sedation without an anesthe- sia provider present. However, a number of factors can prompt the involvement of the anesthesia provider (see Table 38.1). The presence of an anesthesia provider allows the proceduralists to focus the
  CHUNK 6: Miller/Baby Miller p650
    Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS intestine, particularly in the ileocolic region, with result- ant intestinal perforation. Clinical Manifestations The patient presenting for surgery for NEC is most often a preterm infant, with other complications of prema- turity such as respiratory distress syndrome, PDA, a history of birth asphyxia, or other cardiorespiratory instability. Clinical signs include abdominal distention; bloody stools; dilated intestinal loops and pneumatosis intestinalis on abdominal radiograph; temperature insta
  CHUNK 7: Society Guideline: Guideline   GOLD 2024 COPD Full Report p143
    Be sure to read and understand the paragraph entitled Important Purpose & Liability Disclaimer 132 and SARS-CoV-2 infection have not been reported in COPD exacerbations. Nonetheless, any COPD patients with SARS- CoV-2 infection presenting with respiratory symptoms requiring changes in their maintenance medications would fulfil the definition of an exacerbation (Chapter 4). Distinguishing the symptoms of a typical exacerbation from COVID-19 infection can be extremely difficult as many of the symptoms overlap. If COVID-19 infection is suspected, then RT-PCR testing should be conducted. If COVID-

=== [48] Approach to Uncontrolled Pain ===
  CHUNK 0: Miller/Baby Miller p679
    Section: Chapter 35 Geriatrics. Chapter 35 Geriatrics for this, including significant variability in the depth of sedation used in the regional/neuraxial groups, which can at times approach that of a general anesthetic and confound the results. Furthermore, the presence of comorbidities and frequency of anticoagulant medication usage may often prevent a given patient from receiv- ing a neuraxial technique who would have otherwise benefited. Despite this, there are many potential benefits to avoiding general anesthesia in the elderly. Regional techniques are opioid-sparing, have the potential t
  CHUNK 1: MGH Housestaff Manual p75
    Section: Nausea & Vomiting. Nausea & Vomiting Quinten Dicken A P P R O A C H T O P A T I E N T W I T H A C U T E (<1 M O.) N A U S E A/V O M I T I N G (Gastro 2001;120:1, AFP 2007;76:1) 1) Initial assessment a. Rule out life-threatening causes: bowel obstruction, perforation, mesenteric ischemia, pancreatitis, MI, DKA, ↑ ICP b. History: onset, frequency, & severity, hematemesis, feculent vomit. Last BM, LMP Triggers: relation to POs, relation to time of day, recent foods/meds, sick contacts, drug use (opioids, marijuana) Other symptoms: abd pain (see Abdominal Pain), fever, wt loss, diarrhea, 
  CHUNK 2: MGH Housestaff Manual p22
    Section: Non-Invasive Cardiac Testing. Non-Invasive Cardiac Testing Lucas Cofer B A S I C S Non-invasive cardiac testing includes stress/functional and anatomic testing. The best approach to testing depends upon: 1) the clinical question being asked, 2) symptom (often chest pain) acuity, 3) baseline CVD risk/known CAD hx, and 4) patient-specific contraindications. R O L E O F N O NI N V A S I V E C A R D I A C T E S T I N G I N C H E S T P A I N E V A L U A T I O N Source: 2021 ACC/AHA Guidelines for Evaluation and Diagnosis of Chest Pain (Circ 2021;144:e368-e454) Deciding between CCTA (anatom
  CHUNK 3: Miller/Baby Miller p36
    Section: Section I INTRODUCTION. Section I INTRODUCTION of anesthesia residents during 4 years of training.5 These milestones were updated in 2020 to account for advance- ments in the field of anesthesiology.6 For example, an entire milestone devoted to point-of-care ultrasound was added in the 2020 revisions. Table 2.1 shows an example of a milestone in the patient care competency. The mile- stones incorporate several aspects of residency training, including a description of expected behavior, the complex- ity of the patient and the surgical procedure, and the level of supervision needed by t
  CHUNK 4: Miller/Baby Miller p682
    Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS disorder.47 49 Although the distinction between emer- gence delirium and postoperative delirium (POD) can be challenging, the former is usually defined by a very early onset before or at arrival in the PACU.50 Clinically, POD is often formally diagnosed using the Confusion Assessment Method (CAM) or Riker Sedation Agitation Scale49 50 and can present as hyperactive, hypoactive, or mixed types in terms of the perceived level of agitation of the patient, with hypoactive delirium carrying the worst
  CHUNK 5: MGH Housestaff Manual p169
    Section: Geriatrics & Palliative Care. Geriatrics & Palliative Care End of Life Care & Hospice Jade Connor E N D O F L I F E C A R E G EN E R A L P R I N C I PL E S The focus of EOL care is to enhance patient’s comfort, optimize symptom management, and ensure alignment with what matters most to patient. Code status change to DNR/DNI or CMO (Comfort Measures Only) is not a requirement. Note that EOL is a medical state while code status reflects patient goals/values. If code status appears discordant with medical state, close communication among team members is essential for clear understanding 
  CHUNK 6: Miller/Baby Miller p552
    Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS surgical procedures, epidural analgesia can help manage perioperative pain. When placing an epidural in patients with pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas, consider giving premedication to reduce anxiety, avoiding epi- nephrine in the test dose, and running low-concentration local anesthetic intraoperatively to avoid significant vasodilation and sympathectomy-induced hemodynamic lability. Multiple common perioperative medications have the potential to trigger catecholamine surges. Anesthesia pro
  CHUNK 7: Society Guideline: Guideline   ACC AHA 2023 Atrial Fibrillation p45
    Section: 4. In patients with AF receiving warfarin who develop. e45 2023 Guideline for the Diagnosis and Management of Atrial Fibrillation 4. In patients with AF receiving warfarin who develop life-threatening bleeding, treatment with 4-factor prothrombin complex concentrate (if available) in addition to intravenous vitamin K is recommended to rapidly achieve INR correction over fresh frozen plasma and intravenous vitamin K treatment.8–10 2b 5. In patients with AF who develop major gastrointestinal bleeding, resumption of oral anticoagulation therapy may be reasonable after correction of rever

=== [49] Approach to the Fall ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1252
    Section: Management of the oculocardiac reflex includes (1) immediate notification of the. initiate the oculocardiac reflex. Management of the oculocardiac reflex includes (1) immediate notification of the surgeon and cessation of surgical stimulation until heart rate recovers; (2) confirmation of adequate ventilation, oxygenation, and depth of anesthesia; (3) administration of intravenous atropine (10 mcg/kg) if bradycardia persists; and (4) in recalcitrant episodes, infiltration of the rectus muscles with local anesthetic. INTRAOCULAR GAS EXPANSION A gas bubble may be injected by the ophthal
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1313
    Section: Single or continuous peripheral nerve blocks, alone or in combination, can provide. arthroplasty with muscle-sparing approaches have been described. With proper patient selection, these techniques may reduce quadriceps muscle damage, facilitating earlier achievement of range-of-motion and ambulation goals, and may allow for short-stay admission or even same-day discharge in select situations. Anesthetic management and postoperative analgesia should facilitate an accelerated, enhanced recovery program. Single or continuous peripheral nerve blocks, alone or in combination, can provide t
  CHUNK 2: Stanford CA-1 p42
    Section: Difficult Airway Algorithm. Difficult Airway Algorithm According to the ASA, "a difficult airway is defined as the clinical situation in which a conventionally trained anesthesiologist experiences difficulty with facemask ventilation of the upper airway, difficulty with tracheal intubation, or both. The difficult airway represents a complex interaction between patient factors, the clinical setting, and the skills of the practitioner.” *Remember: patients do not die from an inability to intubate the trachea… they die from a lack of oxygenation. If the pulse ox is dropping, fall back to
  CHUNK 3: Miller/Baby Miller p222
    Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT encountered in preoperative evaluation, organized by organ system. Many conditions are addressed by evidence- based clinical practice guidelines from anesthesiology and other specialties. However, substantial clinical judgment is still required to determine how guidelines apply to an individual patient. In many instances clinical practice guidelines provide advice based on expert opinion and not necessarily evidence from clinical trials. In addition, p
  CHUNK 4: Society Guideline: Guideline   KDIGO 2024 CKD p70
    Section: As described in Section 1.2, eGFR is an imperfect estimate. used.219 We therefore advise that serum should be removed from the red blood cells within 12 hours of venipuncture when the Jaffe assay is being used. As described in Section 1.2, eGFR is an imperfect estimate of mGFR. At best, 90% of eGFR will fall within 30% of mGFR. As shown in Figure 12, one of the sources of error is analytical variability in measurement of the ﬁltration markers. of laboratory measurements of creatinine and cystatin C can help to reduce the uncertainty inherent in components of measurement error that lab
  CHUNK 5: Miller/Baby Miller p866
    Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE Palliative care teams assess and treat the patient's symptoms, discuss goals of care, and assess and treat the patient's and family's psychosocial issues. The palliative care team takes a biopsychosocial-spiritual approach to management and recognizes the interplay between these factors in improving overall patient care. Palliative care teams can either focus on a specific issue of concern to the team or perform a comprehensive assessment. Consultations generally fall into two broad catego- ries: goal
  CHUNK 6: Society Guideline: Guideline   JNC7 2003 Hypertension Full Report p67
    Section: Special Situations in Hypertension Management. Special Situations in Hypertension Management primary hypertension.7 Use of alcohol and tobac- co must be strongly discouraged. Use of antihypertensive drugs in pregnant women with chronic hypertension varies greatly among centers. Some clinicians prefer to stop antihyper- tensive medications while maintaining close obser- vation, including use of home BP monitoring. This approach reflects concern about the safety of antihypertensive drug treatment during pregnancy. A meta-analysis of 45 randomized controlled studies of treatment with sev
  CHUNK 7: Society Guideline: Guideline   JNC7 2003 Hypertension Full Report p35
    Section: Calibration, Maintenance, and Use of Blood Pressure Devices. Calibration, Maintenance, and Use of Blood Pressure Devices Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) provides information about BP during daily activi- ties and sleep.59 BP has a reproducible “circadian” profile, with higher values while awake and men- tally and physically active, much lower values during rest and sleep, and early morning increases for 3 or more hours during the transition of sleep to wakefulness.60 These devices use either a microphone to measure Korotkoff sounds or a

=== [50] ACLS & Cardiac Arrest ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p2057
    Section: Changes in drug recommendations are a notable reaffirmation of epinephrine. guidelines suggest that a lack of a PETco2 greater than 10 mm Hg after 20 min in an intubated patient is associated with reduced likelihood of ROSC. An exception to this determination applies to nonintubated patients, in whom a specific PETCO2 cutoff should not be used to aid in the decision to end resuscitative efforts. Changes in drug recommendations are a notable reaffirmation of epinephrine during cardiac arrest. Additionally, vasopressin, alone or in combination with epinephrine, offers no advantage over 
  CHUNK 1: StatPearls: StatPearls   ACLS  Non Shockable Rhythms (PEA & Asystole) p7
    Section: Compression-to-ventilation ratio in cardiac arrest. ary and secondary assessments. Cardiac arrest may be mistaken for respiratory arrest when a patient presents with agonal gasps instead of adequate respirations. Patients with true respiratory arrest rapidly develop cardiac arrest if adequate airway management is not provided immediately. Management of respiratory arrest involves both BLS and advanced life support (ALS) interventions, including providing supplemental oxygen, opening the airway with opening techniques or airway adjuncts, and suctioning when indicated. Patients with res
  CHUNK 2: Miller/Baby Miller p834
    Section: Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was initially defined. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was initially defined over 50 years ago as the administration of mouth-to-mouth ventilation and closed chest cardiac compressions in a pulseless patient. Since that time, significant advances in CPR and cardiovascular life support have been made. Today, the early descriptions of CPR are termed basic life support (BLS), whereas adult advanced cardiovascular life support (ACLS) and pediatric advanced cardiovascu- lar life support (PALS) include additional invasive tech- niques by experienced p
  CHUNK 3: Miller/Baby Miller p838
    Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE be useful as a marker of CPR quality. Data from the AHA Get With the Guidelines Resuscitation registry show a higher likelihood of ROSC when CPR quality is moni- tored using either Petco2 or diastolic blood pressure.2 A prolonged reduction in Petco2 should not be used in isolation for prognostication, and it should certainly be used with caution in patients without an endotracheal tube. Bedside cardiac ultrasound can also be considered when managing cardiac arrest, but its use is not routinely recomme
  CHUNK 4: Miller/Baby Miller p614
    Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS are commonly administered in doses similar to those used in the spinal portion of a CSE (e.g., 2.5 mg bupivacaine with 15 mcg fentanyl) to provide analgesic onset within minutes. This type of labor analgesia lasts about 60 to 90 minutes and is significantly less than that needed for cesarean delivery. To optimize anesthesia for per- ineal laceration repair, hyperbaric local anesthetic can be administered followed by leaving the patient in the sitting position for 5 minutes to achieve a dense sen
  CHUNK 5: Marino ICU Book p208
    Section: Cardiac Arrest. Cardiac Arrest 1 9 1 sternum with the elbows locked and the arms straight. Each compression is a tluT1st delivered through the heel of the hands (one on top of the other) to depress the ster­ num 1.5 to 2 inches. When the compression is released, the sternum should be allowed to recoil completely be­ fore the next compression. 2. The rate of chest compressions should be at least 100 per minute, and a compression-ventilation ratio of 30:2 is rec­ ommended (3). 3. It is important to avoid unnecessary interruptions in chest compressions. One survey of CPR revealed that in
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls: StatPearls   ACLS  Non Shockable Rhythms (PEA & Asystole) p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK613285 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK613285/ Topic: ACLS: Non-Shockable Rhythms (PEA & Asystole) Article Title: Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) Matthew R. Fulton II ; Erik Nordquist . Authors Matthew R. Fulton II 1 ; Erik Nordquist 2 . Last Update: F
  CHUNK 7: Marino ICU Book p208
    ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT Advanced life support (also called advanced cardiac life support or ACLS) includes measures for ventilatory support (intubation and mechanical ventilation), hemodynamic sup­ port (drugs) and cardiac rhythm support (defibrillation)

=== [51] ACLS: Non-Shockable Rhythms (PEA & Asystole) ===
  CHUNK 0: Society Guideline p78
    Section: 552. McPeake J, Hirshberg EL, Christie LM, et al: Models of peer. 552. McPeake J, Hirshberg EL, Christie LM, et al: Models of peer support to remediate post-intensive care syndrome: A report developed by the society of critical care medicine thrive in- ternational peer support collaborative. Crit Care Med 2019; 47:e21–e27 553. Mikkelsen ME, Jackson JC, Hopkins RO, et al: Peer support as a novel strategy to mitigate post-intensive care syndrome. AACN Adv Crit Care 2016; 27:221–229 554. Halm MA: Effects of support groups on anxiety of family members during critical illness. Heart Lung 1
  CHUNK 1: Miller/Baby Miller p843
    Section: Chapter 45 Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation. Chapter 45 Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation 8 Hs 8 Ts Toxins (anaphylaxis/ Hydrogen ions (acidosis) Tension pneumothorax Thrombosis in coronary Thrombus in pulmonary Malignant hyperthermia QT interval prolongation Hypervagal response Pulmonary hypertension Table 45.2 Major Causes of Cardiovascular Collapse in the Perioperative Period rhythm (see Fig. 45.6). A biphasic defibrillator is pre- ferred over monophasic, and a single shock is preferred over sequential (stacked) shocks. If VF or VT persists after at least one CPR–defibrillation cycle, a v
  CHUNK 2: Miller/Baby Miller p467
    Section: Chapter 24 Fluid Management. Chapter 24 Fluid Management 8. Young JB, Utter GH, Schermer CR, etal. Saline versus Plasma- Lyte A in initial resuscitation of trauma patients: A rand- omized trial. Ann Surg. Feb 2014;259(2):255–262. doi:10.1097/ SLA.0b013e318295feba. 9. Soussi S, Ferry A, Chaussard M, Legrand M. Chloride toxicity in critically ill patients: What's the evidence? Anaesth Crit Care Pain Med. 2017;36(2):125–130. doi:10.1016/j.accpm.2016.03.008. 10. Chaussard M, Dépret F, Saint-Aubin O, etal. Physiologi- cal response to fluid resuscitation with Ringer lactate versus Plasmal
  CHUNK 3: StatPearls: StatPearls   ACLS  Non Shockable Rhythms (PEA & Asystole) p2
    Section: Team Performance and Its Critical Impact on Resuscitation. high-quality CPR, and defibrillation of shockable rhythms. Adequate ACLS delivery relies heavily on basic life support (BLS) principles, with high-quality chest compressions being the cornerstone of neurologically intact survival. High-quality chest compressions are performed at the correct rate and depth, with complete recoil and minimal interruption. The adequate delivery of resuscitation, the education of the lay public and resuscitation providers, and the establishment of a well-functioning chain of survival are critical f
  CHUNK 4: Marino ICU Book p754
    evaluation, 642-647 avoiding delays, 642 bedside evaluation, 642-644 diagnostic evaluation, 644-647, 646/ hemorrhagic, 641-642 isd1emic, 641, 643/ medical management, 648-650 risk categories for emboUc, 241-242 risk of thromboembolism and, 33-34 tlu·ombotic, 641 transient ischemic attack, 642 types of stroke, 641-642 Section: Acute tubular necrosis (ATN), 392. Acute tubular necrosis (ATN), 392 Section: Additives, to total parenteral nu­. Additives, to total parenteral nu­ Section: Additives, to total parenteral nu­. trition solutions, 595-596 Section: Adenosine, for treatment of AV. Adenosine,
  CHUNK 5: StatPearls: StatPearls   ACLS  Non Shockable Rhythms (PEA & Asystole) p10
    ients with ROSC after cardiac arrest remain unclear. Focus is growing on identifying and refining practices that could enhance patient outcomes. Ischemia-reperfusion injury from cardiac arrest and subsequent resuscitation affects multiple organ systems, necessitating comprehensive post-cardiac arrest care. This care involves hemodynamic support, mechanical ventilation, temperature management, and treatment of underlying causes and seizures. In addition, this strategy requires close monitoring for infections and management of the patient's critical condition. A significant number of cardiac arr
  CHUNK 6: Marino ICU Book p761
    Section: Cardiogenic pulmonary edema,. 744 Index Cardiogenic pulmonary edema, continuous positive airway pressure for, 312 Cardiogenic shock, 693 hemodynam.ic patterns in, 1101 hemodynamic support for, 2261 treatment of, 183 Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), 189 advanced life support, 191-199 basic life support, 189-191 monHoring d ming, 199-202 post-resuscitation concerns, 202-205 Cardiovascular effects, of opioids, Cardiovascular parameters, 104-108, 1051 cardiac index, 1051, 106 central venous pressure, 104, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, 105, 1051 pulmonary vascular resistance inde
  CHUNK 7: Society Guideline p77
    Section: Curr Opin Anaesthesiol 2018; 31:55–60. 520. Kuhn SO, Meissner K, Mayes LM, et al: Vitamin C in sepsis. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol 2018; 31:55–60 521. Marik PE, Khangoora V, Rivera R, et al: Hydrocortisone, vi- tamin C, and thiamine for the treatment of severe sepsis and septic shock: A retrospective before-after study. Chest 2017; 151:1229–1238 522. Putzu A, Daems AM, Lopez-Delgado JC, et al: The effect of vitamin C on clinical outcome in critically ill patients: A sys- tematic review with meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Crit Care Med 2019; 47:774–783 523. Fowler AA III, Tr

=== [52] Acute Abdomen: Differential Diagnosis & Initial Approach ===
  CHUNK 0: StatPearls: StatPearls   Adrenal Crisis p10
    Section: Differential Diagnosis. eroids is advisable. [69] This approach helps prevent abrupt discontinuation and enables a smoother transition to lower doses. The necessity for mineralocorticoid replacement should be assessed individually and in consultation with an endocrinologist. Mineralocorticoid replacement is unnecessary if the glucocorticoid doses administered to patients exceed 50 mg. [70] In situations where hydrocortisone is unavailable, the following alternative parenteral glucocorticoids can be considered: [3] [31] Prednisolone : A preferred alternative treatment, prednisolone is 
  CHUNK 1: StatPearls p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK459328 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK459328/ Topic: Acute Abdomen: Differential Diagnosis & Initial Approach Article Title: Acute Abdomen License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Nancy L. Kopitnik ; Sarang Kashyap ; Elvita Dominique . Authors Nancy L. Kopitnik 1 ; Sarang Kashyap 2 ; Elvita Dominique 3 . Last Update: February 15, 20
  CHUNK 2: StatPearls: StatPearls   Pyelonephritis p5
    aroscopic—depends on the patient's clinical condition and the extent of the disease. [22] Therefore, current treatment recommendations advocate using conservative strategies, such as endoscopic or percutaneous drainage, for renal preservation. Nephrectomy should only be considered if these approaches prove ineffective. [13] [23] Huang and Tseng have proposed a management approach for EPN based on clinico-radiological classification, [11] [13] as mentioned below. Classes 1 and 2 EPN: Medical management alone or combined with percutaneous drainage can yield favorable outcomes. Classes 3A and 3B 
  CHUNK 3: StatPearls: StatPearls   Lactic Acidosis p8
    Section: Differential Diagnosis. s with sepsis-induced acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), a lung-protective ventilation strategy is advised. This includes using low tidal volumes (≤6 mL/kg predicted body weight) and maintaining plateau pressures below 30 cm H 2 O. For individuals with moderate-to-severe ARDS, prone positioning for more than 12 hours per day is recommended to improve oxygenation and outcomes. Additional best practices for managing sepsis and septic shock include implementing a restrictive transfusion strategy, providing pharmacological venous thromboembolism prophylaxi
  CHUNK 4: Morgan & Mikhail p1600
    Section: Conservative treatment of PDPH involves recumbent positioning, analgesics,. accidental dural puncture with a large epidural needle in a young pregnant woman (perhaps as high as 20%–50%). The lowest incidence would be expected in an older adult man using a 27-gauge pencil-point needle (<1%). Studies of obstetric patients undergoing spinal anesthesia for cesarean delivery with small-gauge pencil-point needles have shown rates as low as 3% or 4%. Conservative treatment of PDPH involves recumbent positioning, analgesics, intravenous or oral fluid administration, and caffeine. Keeping the 
  CHUNK 5: Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2014 SSTI p29
    Section: For mild to moderate disease, oral tetracycline (500 mg qid). function. For children, streptomycin should be administered at 30 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses or gentamicin at 6 mg/kg/day in 3 divided doses [130]. Although no data exist, treatment with a parenteral agent until the acute illness is controlled, followed by an oral agent, seems rational for the duration of 7–10 days. Treatment of severe cases should be extended to 14 days. For mild to moderate disease, oral tetracycline (500 mg qid) or doxycycline (100 mg bid) is appropriate. A few cases have been treated with ﬂuoroquinolo
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls p11
    Section: Treatment / Management. tion findings are unclear, imaging with abdominal ultrasound is preferred. Children with suspected necrotizing enterocolitis should undergo abdominal radiographs, which reveal pneumatosis intestinalis. Some centers use ultrasonography, which shows free air, focal fluid collections, increased bowel wall thickness, and echogenicity. [34] Infants with necrotizing enterocolitis also warrant a sepsis evaluation, CBC, serum electrolytes, BUN, creatinine, and glucose levels. Persistent hyponatremia, hyperglycemia, and metabolic acidosis all indicate necrotic bowel and
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls: StatPearls   Lymphoma  Hodgkin and non Hodgkin approach p7
    Section: Differential Diagnosis. ] . Lenalidomide with rituximab or obinutuzumab are other alternatives. AUGMENT trial evaluated the addition of lenalidomide to rituximab, resulting in improved PFS (39 months versus 14 months); OS data was immature. Patients on lenalidomide plus rituximab had higher rates of infections, cutaneous reactions, and cytopenia. [39] After 2 prior systemic therapies, the phosphoinositide 3'-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor copanlisib is approved by the FDA for use in relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma. CHRONOS-3 trial randomly assigned 458 patients with relapsed clini

=== [53] Acute Cholecystitis & Choledocholithiasis ===
  CHUNK 0: StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Cholecystitis & Choledocholithiasis p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK441961 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK441961/ Topic: Acute Cholecystitis & Choledocholithiasis Article Title: Choledocholithiasis License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Christopher F. McNicoll ; Alyssa Pastorino ; Umer Farooq ; Mary J. Froehlich ; Charles R. St Hill . Authors Christopher F. McNicoll 1 ; Alyssa Pastorino 2 ; Umer F
  CHUNK 1: StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Cholecystitis & Choledocholithiasis p1
    Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK441961 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK441961/ Topic: Acute Cholecystitis & Choledocholithiasis Article Title: Choledocholithiasis License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf
  CHUNK 2: StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Cholecystitis & Choledocholithiasis p5
    Section: Differential Diagnosis. ire into the common bile duct. A sphincterotome then is used to cut the papilla, using cautery, and enlarge the ampulla of Vater. Often, the stones will be released with this maneuver. A variety of snares and baskets can be used to grasp the stones and remove them if needed. A balloon catheter also can be used to sweep the common bile duct to remove any stones. The endoscopist also can place a stent in the common bile duct, which will serve two purposes. First, any remaining stones will be softened, and potentially easier to remove with a second ERCP. Second, t
  CHUNK 3: MGH Housestaff Manual p241
    Section: Sammy Halpern. Sammy Halpern See Calling Consults for details on how to call the appropriate surgical service S M A L L B O W E L O B S T R U C T I O N (J Trauma Acute Care Surg 2015;79:661) Causes: adhesions from any previous abd surgery, hernias, cancer >> intussusception, volvulus, foreign bodies, stricture Dx: abd distension, nausea/vomiting, obstipation. Labs normal or hypoK/hypoCl metabolic alkalosis from repeated emesis. Examine for evidence of hernia and abdominal scars. If severe pain or peritoneal signs, consider ischemia from strangulation (lactate, WBC) Imaging: KUB – init
  CHUNK 4: StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Cholecystitis & Choledocholithiasis p2
    bladder into the CBD. Bile stasis, bactibilia, chemical imbalances, increased bilirubin excretion, pH imbalances, and the formation of sludge are some of the factors which lead to the formation of these stones. Less commonly, stones are formed in the intrahepatic biliary tree, termed primary hepatolithiasis, and may lead to choledocholithiasis. Stones that are too large to pass through the ampulla of Vater remain in the distal common bile duct, causing obstructive jaundice that may lead to pancreatitis, hepatitis, or cholangitis. Gallstones are differentiated by their composition. Cholesterol 
  CHUNK 5: MGH Housestaff Manual p88
    Section: Biliary Disease. Biliary Disease Hailey Harris G A L L S T O N E D I S E A S E S (J Hep 2016;65:146) Cholelithiasis: presence of stones in GB (6% of M, 9% of F) Choledocholithiasis: stones in common bile duct - Sx: aSx (<20% develop clinical events), larger, multiple, older gallstones and Female sex events [Gastro 2016;150:156]) vs biliary colic (dull RUQ/epigastric pain, 30m-6h, caused by GB contracting around sludge/stone, often postprandial & w/ n/v) - Dx: RUQUS (Sn 84%, Sp 99%) > CT (Sn 55-80%); EUS if ⊝; labs wnl - Stone types: cholesterol (most common); pigment: Crohn’s/ileal d
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Cholecystitis & Choledocholithiasis p4
    Section: Treatment / Management. rn, with increases in alkaline phosphatase, serum bilirubin, and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) exceeding the elevations in serum AST and ALT. The positive predictive value of elevated liver tests is poor because liver tests are elevated due to a variety of other etiologies too. Thus, normal levels help in excluding choledocholithiasis. Symptom resolution, coupled with down-trending liver function tests, suggests that a patient has spontaneously passed the gallstone. A lipase should also be checked to assess for gallstone pancreatitis. An INR with prothrom
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls: StatPearls   Acute Cholecystitis & Choledocholithiasis p6
    Section: Abnormal liver biochemical test other than bilirubin. Abnormal liver biochemical test other than bilirubin Clinical gallstone pancreatitis Using the above predictors, patients are stratified as: At least one very strong predictor and/or Both strong predictors One strong predictor and/or At least one moderate predictor The prognosis of choledocholithiasis depends on the presence of complications and their severity. Approximately 45% of patients with choledocholithiasis remain asymptomatic. Of all patients who refuse surgery or are unfit to undergo surgery, only 55% experience varying d

=== [54] Acute Respiratory Failure ===
  CHUNK 0: MGH Housestaff Manual p48
    Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care Non-Invasive Oxygenation/Ventilation Kimberly DeBruler C O N V EN T I ON A L O X Y G EN DE L I V ER Y D E VI C E S Recommendations for Supplemental Oxygen Therapy Target SpO2 91-96%: Recent trials of O2 targets found no benefit to higher/lower targets in critical illness (ARJCCM 2021, PILOT) Lower target (SpO2 88-92%): At risk for hypercapnic respiratory failure (COPD, OHS, OSA, decreased central respiratory drive, neuromuscular respiratory disease) Higher Target (~SpO2 ~100%): CO poisoning, cluster headaches, sickle cell crisis, pn
  CHUNK 1: Stanford CA-1 p31
    Section: Opioids. – Most commonly used as a bolus to treat brief periods of intense stimulation • E.g. immediately prior local injection by surgeon during MAC case – Fastest onset time of all opioids (~90 seconds); pKa = 6.5, so it crosses the blood-brain barrier rapidly despite high protein binding – Brief duration of action due to rapid redistribution – Also causes more N/V, chest wall rigidity, and respiratory depression – Slower peak time and long duration of action often less desirable in acute surgical setting – Active metabolite, morphine-6-glucuronide, has analgesic properties and is r
  CHUNK 2: Stanford CA-1 p46
    Section: Fluid Management. Fluid Management Evaluation of Intravascular Volume • Hypovolemia: vomiting, diarrhea, fever, sepsis, trauma • Hypervolemia: weight gain, edema, acute renal failure, Physical Exam • Hypovolemia: skin turgor, thready pulse, dry mucous membranes, tachycardia, orthostasis, decreased UOP • Hypervolemia: pitting edema, rales, wheezing, elevated JVP • Hypovolemia: rising Hct, contraction alkalosis then metabolic acidosis, Ur specific gravity > 1.010, Urine Na < 10, Urine Osm > 450, hypernatremia, BUN:Cr > 10:1; bedside ultrasound (IVC <1.7cm OR 1.7cm with >50% IVCCI) • Hyp
  CHUNK 3: MGH Housestaff Manual p61
    Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care Christina Shincovich T Y P E S O F ECMO (JACC 2014;63:2769) 1. Venoarterial (VA, replaces heart and lungs): primarily cardiogenic shock o Venous blood is removed, oxygenated, CO2 extracted, and reinfused in arterial system o Venous cannula in com. femoral vein (drainage from IVC or RA); arterial cannula in R fem. artery 2. Venovenous (VV, replaces lungs): manages hypoxemic resp. failure; relies on native cardiac output o Venous blood is removed, oxygenated, CO2 extracted, and reinfused in venous system o Either two venous cannulae (
  CHUNK 4: MGH Housestaff Manual p27
    Section: Inpatient Heart Failure. Inpatient Heart Failure Amanda Jowell Diuretic plan: determine maintenance diuretic dose and provide specific instructions for taking additional rescue doses. Observe on maintenance dose and decide if needs K replacement HFmrEF (EF 40-49%): treat with diuretics & consider adding GDMT agents for HFrEF (Curr Heart Fail Rep 2020;17:1) HFpEF (EF ≥50%): prevent volume overload, treat with diuretics, treat comorbidities (DM, HTN, AF) SGLT2i only agent found to CV death/hospitalizations in pt with EF ≥40% (EMPEROR-Preserved) Consider spironolactone if normal renal f
  CHUNK 5: MGH Housestaff Manual p28
    Section: Right Ventricular Failure. Right Ventricular Failure Chris Schenck P A T H O P H Y S I O L O G Y Normal RV function: governed by systemic venous return, PA pressure, pericardial compliance, and native contractility of the RV free wall and interventricular septum (where RV and LV are “tethered”). The RV is coupled to the high-compliance, low-resistance pulm circulation  RV ejects blood at lower pressure compared to LV  RV is more afterload sensitive than LV. RV can adapt to changes in volume > pressure. Acute RV Failure: RV & LV interdependent  failure of RV  failure of LV via: (1)
  CHUNK 6: Miller/Baby Miller p232
    Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT primarily for determination of hematocrit. The rela- tionship between platelet count and bleeding risk is not linear and depends also on patient factors and qualitative platelet function. Based primarily on expert opinion and low-quality evidence, commonly used platelet threshold for major nonneuraxial surgery is >50 × 109/L; for surgery on the brain or posterior eye, the recommended threshold is 100 × 109/L.36 Infectious Disease Two infectious disease
  CHUNK 7: MGH Housestaff Manual p46
    Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care Respiratory Distress Cassandra Fiorino Respiratory distress is a constellation of symptoms that portends impending respiratory collapse. It is different from dyspnea, which is the subjective sensation of shortness of breath. Key symptoms of respiratory distress are: Tachypnea (go look at the patient and measure yourself. RR ≥20) Cyanosis (typically SpO2 <80%) ↑WOB (nose flaring, retractions, grunting, tripod-ing, diaphoresis) Obstruction (wheezing, stridor) A P P R OA C H Confirm code status Low threshold to call Rapid Response for 

=== [55] Adrenal Crisis ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1236
    Section: Anesthetic Considerations. menstrual irregularity, hypertension, and mental status changes. Anesthetic Considerations Patients with Cushing syndrome may be volume overloaded and have hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis resulting from the mineralocorticoid activity of glucocorticoids. These abnormalities should be corrected preoperatively in the manner previously described. Patients with osteoporosis are at risk for fracture during positioning. If the cause of Cushing syndrome is exogenous glucocorticoids, the patient’s adrenal glands may not be able to respond to perioperative stresses, a
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p2120
    Immunologically mediated processes Drug reactions Blood reactions Tissue destruction (rejection) Connective tissue disorders Granulomatous disorders Tissue damage Neoplastic disorders Metabolic disorders Thyroid storm (thyroid crisis) Adrenal (addisonian) crisis Malignant hyperthermia Neuroleptic malignant syndrome Acute gout Acute
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p391
    Section: Although these agents are adrenergic agonists, they are also considered to be. postanesthesia and intensive care units because it does so without significant ventilatory depression. Rapid administration may elevate blood pressure, but hypotension and bradycardia can occur during ongoing therapy. The recommended dosing of dexmedetomidine consists of a loading dose at 1 mcg/kg over 10 min followed by an infusion at 0.2 to 0.7 mcg/kg/h, though we recognize that clinicians administer this agent in a great many ways (including intranasally for sedation in children). Although these agents a
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p2120
    Section: Antimuscarinic agents. Antimuscarinic agents β-Adrenergic agonists Drug withdrawal Metabolic disorders Adrenal (addisonian) crisis Carcinoid syndrome Acute porphyria TABLE 56–5 Perioperative causes of fever. Immunologically mediated processes Drug reactions Blood reactions Tissue destruction (rejection) Connective tissue disorders Granulomatous disorders Tissue damage Neoplastic disorders Metabolic disorders Thyroid storm (thyroid crisis) Adrenal (addisonian) crisis Malignant hyperthermia Neuroleptic malignant syndrome Acute gout Acute porphyria
  CHUNK 4: Morgan & Mikhail p1236
    Acute adrenal insufficiency (Addisonian crisis), however, can be triggered in steroid-dependent patients who do not receive appropriate glucocorticoid doses during periods of stress (eg, infection, trauma, surgery) and in patients who receive infusions of etomidate
  CHUNK 5: Morgan & Mikhail p2120
    Antimuscarinic agents β-Adrenergic agonists Drug withdrawal Metabolic disorders Adrenal (addisonian) crisis Carcinoid syndrome Acute porphyria TABLE 56–5 Perioperative causes of fever
  CHUNK 6: Morgan & Mikhail p2122
    Section: The patient appears to be in a hypermetabolic state manifested by excessive. The patient appears to be in a hypermetabolic state manifested by excessive adrenergic activity, fever, and a worsening mental status. The absence of major metabolic acidosis and lack of exposure to a known triggering agent exclude malignant hyperthermia (see Chapter 52). Other possibilities include a transfusion reaction, sepsis, or an undiagnosed pheochromocytoma. The sequence of events makes the first two unlikely, and the decreasing prominence of hypertension (now replaced with relative hypotension) and i
  CHUNK 7: Morgan & Mikhail p2216
    Section: Addisonian crisis, 769. Addisonian crisis, 769 Adductor canal block, 1043–1045, 1045f–1046f Adenoidectomy, 929–930 Adenomas, 621 Adenosine, 378t, 380t, 905t, 1298t Adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase), 346 Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 151, 350, 586, 722 Adenylyl cyclase, 238, 239f Adjustable pressure-limiting (APL) valves, 38, 43, 43f, 61 Adrenal gland, 768 catecholamine excess, 770–771 glucocorticoids deficiency of, 769–770 excess of, 769 mineralocorticoids deficiency, 769 excess, 768–769 physiology, 768 Adrenergic agonists, 240–244. See also specific agents α2, 242 case discussion on,

=== [56] Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS): Shockable Rhythms ===
  CHUNK 0: Society Guideline p78
    Section: 552. McPeake J, Hirshberg EL, Christie LM, et al: Models of peer. 552. McPeake J, Hirshberg EL, Christie LM, et al: Models of peer support to remediate post-intensive care syndrome: A report developed by the society of critical care medicine thrive in- ternational peer support collaborative. Crit Care Med 2019; 47:e21–e27 553. Mikkelsen ME, Jackson JC, Hopkins RO, et al: Peer support as a novel strategy to mitigate post-intensive care syndrome. AACN Adv Crit Care 2016; 27:221–229 554. Halm MA: Effects of support groups on anxiety of family members during critical illness. Heart Lung 1
  CHUNK 1: Miller/Baby Miller p467
    Section: Chapter 24 Fluid Management. Chapter 24 Fluid Management 8. Young JB, Utter GH, Schermer CR, etal. Saline versus Plasma- Lyte A in initial resuscitation of trauma patients: A rand- omized trial. Ann Surg. Feb 2014;259(2):255–262. doi:10.1097/ SLA.0b013e318295feba. 9. Soussi S, Ferry A, Chaussard M, Legrand M. Chloride toxicity in critically ill patients: What's the evidence? Anaesth Crit Care Pain Med. 2017;36(2):125–130. doi:10.1016/j.accpm.2016.03.008. 10. Chaussard M, Dépret F, Saint-Aubin O, etal. Physiologi- cal response to fluid resuscitation with Ringer lactate versus Plasmal
  CHUNK 2: Miller/Baby Miller p844
    Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE VF/VT. A study of OHCA patients showed favorable results with the administration of lidocaine compared with placebo, but not amiodarone.12 Vasopressin, a non- adrenergic vasopressor, was removed from the 2015 ACLS guidelines because of a lack of demonstrated benefit when compared with epinephrine.20 Drugs used for ACLS are associated with ROSC but not with improved survival to hospital discharge or neurologic recovery. Administra- tion of steroids along with vasoactive drugs may improve the likelihood
  CHUNK 3: Marino ICU Book p754
    evaluation, 642-647 avoiding delays, 642 bedside evaluation, 642-644 diagnostic evaluation, 644-647, 646/ hemorrhagic, 641-642 isd1emic, 641, 643/ medical management, 648-650 risk categories for emboUc, 241-242 risk of thromboembolism and, 33-34 tlu·ombotic, 641 transient ischemic attack, 642 types of stroke, 641-642 Section: Acute tubular necrosis (ATN), 392. Acute tubular necrosis (ATN), 392 Section: Additives, to total parenteral nu­. Additives, to total parenteral nu­ Section: Additives, to total parenteral nu­. trition solutions, 595-596 Section: Adenosine, for treatment of AV. Adenosine,
  CHUNK 4: Marino ICU Book p761
    Section: Cardiogenic pulmonary edema,. 744 Index Cardiogenic pulmonary edema, continuous positive airway pressure for, 312 Cardiogenic shock, 693 hemodynam.ic patterns in, 1101 hemodynamic support for, 2261 treatment of, 183 Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), 189 advanced life support, 191-199 basic life support, 189-191 monHoring d ming, 199-202 post-resuscitation concerns, 202-205 Cardiovascular effects, of opioids, Cardiovascular parameters, 104-108, 1051 cardiac index, 1051, 106 central venous pressure, 104, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, 105, 1051 pulmonary vascular resistance inde
  CHUNK 5: Society Guideline p77
    Section: Curr Opin Anaesthesiol 2018; 31:55–60. 520. Kuhn SO, Meissner K, Mayes LM, et al: Vitamin C in sepsis. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol 2018; 31:55–60 521. Marik PE, Khangoora V, Rivera R, et al: Hydrocortisone, vi- tamin C, and thiamine for the treatment of severe sepsis and septic shock: A retrospective before-after study. Chest 2017; 151:1229–1238 522. Putzu A, Daems AM, Lopez-Delgado JC, et al: The effect of vitamin C on clinical outcome in critically ill patients: A sys- tematic review with meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Crit Care Med 2019; 47:774–783 523. Fowler AA III, Tr
  CHUNK 6: Marino ICU Book p776
    Section: Levothyroxine, for treatment of. Levothyroxine, for treatment of hypothyroidism, 608-609 for h·eatment of cardiac arrest, 197t, 198 for treatment of venh·icular tachycardia, 250 via endotracheal route, 196 Life support advanced, 191-199 basic, 189-191 airway patency, 189 chest compressions, 190-191 ventilation, 189-190 Linezolid, 684-685 lactic acidosis and, 365 for MRSA or vancomycin­ resistant strains, 516, 528 for treatment of catheter­ related septicemia, 911 for treatment of pneumonia, 543, 5431 for treatment of severe sepsis a11d septic shock, 528 for treahnent of urinary tract 
  CHUNK 7: Morgan & Mikhail p2147
    Section: Hg in adults or <2 SD below normal value for age). Hg in adults or <2 SD below normal value for age) S o2 >70%4 Cardiac index4 >3.5 L/min per m2 Organ dysfunction variables Arterial hypoxemia (PaO2/FiO2 < 300) Acute oliguria (urine output <0.5 mL/kg/h or 45 mmol/L for at least 2 h) Creatinine increase >0.5 mg/dL Coagulation abnormalities (INR >1.5 or aPTT >60 s) Ileus (absent bowel sounds) Thrombocytopenia (platelet count <100,000/μL) Hyperbilirubinemia (plasma total bilirubin >4 mg/dL or 70 mmol/L) Tissue perfusion variables Hyperlactatemia (>1 mmol/L) Decreased capillary refill or m

=== [57] Airway Management in Emergencies ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p2035
    Section: Angioedema can lead to airway compromise and is frequently the cause for. urticaria, angioedema, and anaphylaxis; when these reactions are mild, they are confined to the skin (urticaria) or moderate, they involve subcutaneous tissue (angioedema). Severe reactions become generalized and life-threatening medical emergencies (anaphylaxis). Urticarial lesions are characteristically well-circumscribed skin wheals with raised erythematous borders and blanched centers; they are intensely pruritic. Angioedema presents as deep, nonpitting cutaneous edema from marked vasodilation and increased 
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1286
    Section: Adapter, Cook Medical), which can facilitate reintubation and provide oxygenation in. endotracheal tube exchanger (eg, Cook Airway Exchange Catheter with Rapi-Fit Adapter, Cook Medical), which can facilitate reintubation and provide oxygenation in the setting of immediate postextubation respiratory obstruction. In addition, the operating team must be prepared for emergency tracheotomy or cricothyrotomy. Otherwise, extubation can be attempted once the patient is fully awake and there are no signs of continued bleeding. Patients with intermaxillary fixation (eg, maxillomandibular wiring
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p1039
    Section: C. botulinum spores—which is why infants should never be fed honey. Very rarely,. botulism in infants may also be caused by ingestion of honey, which commonly contains C. botulinum spores—which is why infants should never be fed honey. Very rarely, cases of botulism have resulted from misadventures with cosmetic Botox® injections. More worrisome, however, is the potential for bioterrorism involving food or aerosolization, as the median lethal dose of inhaled botulinum toxin may be as little as 2 ng/kg and only slightly greater for ingested toxin. Anesthetic Considerations for Patients
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p1048
    Section: What agents may be safely used for general anesthesia?. therefore always be prepared with a plan for general anesthesia. What agents may be safely used for general anesthesia? Major goals include preventing pulmonary aspiration, avoiding excessive respiratory or circulatory depression, avoiding NMBs if possible, and perhaps avoiding agents known to trigger malignant hyperthermia. A normal response to a previous general anesthetic in the patient or a family member may be reassuring but does not guarantee the same response subsequently. General anesthesia may be induced and maintained w
  CHUNK 4: StatPearls: StatPearls   Airway Management in Emergencies p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK557786 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK557786/ Topic: Airway Management in Emergencies Article Title: EMS Airway Management: Addressing Challenges in Adverse Conditions License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. EMS Airway Management: Addressing Challenges in Adverse Conditions Gabriel B. Beecham ; Melissa D. Kohn . Authors Gabriel B. 
  CHUNK 5: StatPearls: StatPearls   Airway Management in Emergencies p4
    Section: Manual airway management maneuvers, such as the head-tilt-chin-lift method or jaw-thrust m. are essential for patient survival, there are no absolute contraindications to airway management. However, some techniques may have relative contraindications in certain clinical contexts. Advanced maneuvers, such as intubation, should only be performed by properly trained providers when the potential benefits in a given clinical context outweigh the risks. Airway manipulation should be minimized in certain scenarios where aggressive prehospital interventions could lead to sudden deterioration,
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls: StatPearls   Airway Management in Emergencies p7
    Section: Minimal Backup and Limited Equipment. ragm. This may create a dangerous downward spiral. Desaturation occurs more rapidly in patients with obesity due to compromised airway mechanics, increased metabolic demands and oxygen consumption, and underlying conditions that contribute to hypoxia. Patient positioning and preparation are crucial for effective airway management in bariatric patients. Manual airway manipulation, such as the jaw thrust or insertion of an oropharyngeal or nasopharyngeal airway, may help alleviate airway obstruction related to excess soft tissue. Practitioners shoul
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls: StatPearls   Airway Management in Emergencies p5
    Section: Technique or Treatment. ryngoscopy equipment may malfunction in extreme temperatures, so backup methods should be readily available in case of malfunction. Technique or Treatment Lighting in the prehospital environment is often suboptimal, which can hinder the proper preparation of airway equipment and impair communication and situational awareness among healthcare team members during the procedure. This can have significant implications for airway management, particularly intubation, which depends on direct visualization of tube placement. Conversely, excessive ambient light can also

=== [58] Altered Mental Status (AMS): Approach & Differential ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p351
    Section: What is your general approach to this diagnostic dilemma?. the patient is still intubated and shows no evidence of spontaneous respiration or consciousness. What is your general approach to this diagnostic dilemma? Clues to the solution of complex clinical problems are usually found in a pertinent review of the medical and surgical history, the history of drug ingestions, the physical examination, and laboratory results. In this case, the perioperative anesthetic management should also be considered. What medical illnesses predispose a patient to delayed awakening or prolonged paralys
  CHUNK 1: StatPearls: StatPearls   Metabolic Acidosis  Approach and Anion Gap p8
    Each toxic alcohol has characteristic metabolites and the following clinical manifestations: Methanol is metabolized to formic acid and presents with altered mental status (AMS), blurry vision, dilated pupils, and papilledema
  CHUNK 2: StatPearls: StatPearls   Hypercalcemia p7
    The complications of hypercalcemia include the following: Syncope and arrhythmias Altered mental status Deterrence and Patient Education The management of hypercalcemia involves both evidence-based medical interventions and a focused diagnostic approach to ensure cost-effective, patient-centered care
  CHUNK 3: StatPearls: StatPearls   Adrenal Crisis p10
    Section: Differential Diagnosis. eroids is advisable. [69] This approach helps prevent abrupt discontinuation and enables a smoother transition to lower doses. The necessity for mineralocorticoid replacement should be assessed individually and in consultation with an endocrinologist. Mineralocorticoid replacement is unnecessary if the glucocorticoid doses administered to patients exceed 50 mg. [70] In situations where hydrocortisone is unavailable, the following alternative parenteral glucocorticoids can be considered: [3] [31] Prednisolone : A preferred alternative treatment, prednisolone is 
  CHUNK 4: Intern Notes / Survival Guide p17
    Section: HYPONATREMIA: Na < 135 mEq / dl. HYPONATREMIA: Na < 135 mEq / dl • Get a sense of ﬂuid status: Overloaded , dehydrated , euvolemic. • I/Os. Cumulative since admission ? • Any ﬂuids running ? Type and rate ? • Symptoms / signs: • Dehydration: Thirst, dry mouth, decreasing UOP. • Overload: Edema, crackles, dyspnea. • Speciﬁcally ask for neurological features: Increasing confusion, changes in mental status, seizures. #2. Information from chart review / sign out: • Acuity of change: Acute ( < 48 hours) vs chronic ( > 48 hours). • Has patient been hyponatremic in past ? Why ? • Review ﬂuid
  CHUNK 5: StatPearls: StatPearls   Metabolic Acidosis  Approach and Anion Gap p8
    Calculated osmolality = 2 × (Na + K) + (glucose ÷ 18) + (BUN ÷ 2.8) + (ethanol ÷ 4.6) A normal osmolar gap is typically <10 mOsm/kg, while an elevated gap (>10 mOsm/kg) suggests the presence of exogenous osmoles, including methanol, ethylene glycol, or isopropanol. [8] The coexistence of HAGMA with an elevated osmolar gap is highly suggestive of toxic alcohol ingestion. Each toxic alcohol has characteristic metabolites and the following clinical manifestations: Methanol is metabolized to formic acid and presents with altered mental status (AMS), blurry vision, dilated pupils, and papilledema. 
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls p17
    Section: Differential Diagnosis. icant bleeding risk. FXI is also safe, according to recent studies. [83] Additionally, these agents may be most useful for patients with AIS due to embolic stroke of unknown source, and patients without any obvious cardioembolic source. High-intensity statins (atorvastatin 80 mg daily or rosuvastatin 20 mg daily) are recommended for patients younger than 75 years old with clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Patients already taking statins before their ischemic stroke may continue their therapy. [84] Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis
  CHUNK 7: MGH Housestaff Manual p151
    Section: Plasma Cell Disorders. Plasma Cell Disorders Michael Trinh E V A L U A T I O N O F P L A S M A C E L L D I S O R D E R S (Leukemia 2009;23:215) When to Send Ig Levels Quantify immunoglobulin (Ig) levels in blood (IgG, IgM, IgA, IgD, IgE). Will not discern monoclonal vs. polyclonal If suspecting a 1° (e.g. B cell deficiency) or 2° humoral immunodeficiency Consider repleting w/ IVIg if IgG < 400 mg/dL Detect/quantify M-protein (monoclonal protein = M-spike = paraprotein), Ig from an abnormally expanded B/plasma cell If suspecting a monoclonal B-cell or plasma cell disorder, send SPEP & 

=== [59] Altered mental status & acute delirium on the wards ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p2130
    Section: Increases in pulmonary blood flow that exceed the capacity of the pulmonary. pulmonary capillaries and secondarily increases Pc′. Pulmonary venous hypertension may result from left ventricular failure, mitral stenosis, or left atrial obstruction. Increases in pulmonary blood flow that exceed the capacity of the pulmonary vasculature will also raise Pc′. Marked increases in pulmonary blood flow can be the result of large left-to-right cardiac or peripheral shunts, hypervolemia (fluid overload), or extremes of anemia or exercise. Management of cardiogenic pulmonary edema involves decrea
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p874
    Section: Restrictive Pulmonary Disease. and secretions, absence of significant hypercapnia and acidosis, and absence of respiratory depression due to residual anesthetic agents. Patients with an FEV1 below 50% may require a period of postoperative ventilation, particularly following upper abdominal and thoracic operations. Restrictive Pulmonary Disease Restrictive pulmonary diseases are characterized by decreased lung compliance. Lung volumes are typically reduced, with preservation of normal expiratory flow rates. Thus, both FEV1 and FVC are reduced, but the FEV1/FVC ratio is normal. Restrict
  CHUNK 2: Society Guideline p74
    Section: 434. Papazian L, Aubron C, Brochard L, et al: Formal guidelines:. 434. Papazian L, Aubron C, Brochard L, et al: Formal guidelines: Management of acute respiratory distress syndrome. Ann Intensive Care 2019; 9:69 435. Laffey JG, Bellani G, Pham T, et al; LUNG SAFE Investigators and the ESICM Trials Group: Potentially modifiable factors contributing to outcome from acute respiratory distress syn- drome: The LUNG SAFE study. Intensive Care Med 2016; 42:1865–1876 436. Villar J, Martín-Rodríguez C, Domínguez-Berrot AM, et al; Spanish Initiative for Epidemiology, Stratification and Therapie
  CHUNK 3: Miller/Baby Miller p380
    Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT peak airway pressure can also be caused by decreases in lung or chest wall compliance. If peak airway pressure is increased and simultaneously positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) is increased, this may signify a tension pneumothorax, especially if associated with arterial hypotension. In this circumstance the hypotension is caused by high intrathoracic pressure impeding venous return. The mechanical ventilator can be set to produce a brief pause at
  CHUNK 4: Society Guideline p37
    Section: Protective Ventilation in Acute Respiratory. Protective Ventilation in Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) This recommendation is the same as that of the pre- vious guidelines. Of note, the studies that guide the recommendations in this section enrolled patients using criteria from the American-European Consensus Criteria Definition for Acute Lung Injury and ARDS (422). For the current document, we used the 2012 Berlin definition and the terms mild, moderate, and severe ARDS (PaO2/FiO2 ≤ 300, ≤ 200, and ≤ 100 mm Hg, respectively) (423). Several multicenter RCTs have been perfor
  CHUNK 5: Miller/Baby Miller p766
    Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE lung-protective (ARDSnet) ventilation to prevent ventila- tor-associated lung injury (i.e., barotrauma, volutrauma, and atelectrauma). The central tenets of lung-protective ventilation include lower tidal volumes (i.e., 6 mL/kg of ideal body weight), limited plateau pressure (i.e., <30 cmH2O), using higher positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), and accepting lower PaO2 and higher PaCO2 Such distinctions help to direct appropriate treatment and supportive care. However, multiple processes can occur s
  CHUNK 6: MGH Housestaff Manual p58
    Section: Pulmonary & Critical Care. Pulmonary & Critical Care Mechanical Ventilation Kimberly DeBruler V E N T I L A T O R C O M P L I C A T I O N S Dynamic hyperinflation (auto-PEEP): measured by end expiratory hold. Auto PEEP = end exp pressure – set PEEP Diagnosis: end-expiratory flow >0 due to incomplete alveolar emptying RFs: vent strategy causing hyperinflation (high RR, I:E ratio) or obstructive disease (asthma, COPD, CF) Consequences: adverse hemodynamic effects (HoTN secondary to venous return), alveolar over-distention ( volu-/barotrauma); effort to trigger breath Tx: longer exha
  CHUNK 7: Stanford CA-1 p52
    Section: Transfusion-Related Acute Lung. Transfusion-Related Acute Lung Injury (TRALI) Occurs 4-6 hours after transfusion Due to plasma-containing products (platelets and FFP > pRBCs) - usually donor antibodies reacting to recipient leukocytes Incidence: 1:1100 (but likely under-reported) Mortality 5-10% - Leading cause of transfusion-related mortality Signs & symptoms – Dyspnea, hypoxemia, hypotension, fever, pulmonary edema Diagnosis of exclusion – First rule out sepsis, volume overload, and cardiogenic pulmonary edema – Supportive care, similar to ARDS (O2, mechanical ventilation, tidal vol

=== [60] Anaphylaxis ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p391
    Section: Although these agents are adrenergic agonists, they are also considered to be. postanesthesia and intensive care units because it does so without significant ventilatory depression. Rapid administration may elevate blood pressure, but hypotension and bradycardia can occur during ongoing therapy. The recommended dosing of dexmedetomidine consists of a loading dose at 1 mcg/kg over 10 min followed by an infusion at 0.2 to 0.7 mcg/kg/h, though we recognize that clinicians administer this agent in a great many ways (including intranasally for sedation in children). Although these agents a
  CHUNK 1: Stanford CA-1 p78
    Section: Anaphylaxis. Allergic reactions are an important cause of intraoperative morbidity and mortality (3.4% mortality) Account for approximately 10% of all anesthetic complications More than 90% of reactions occur within 3 minutes, but can be delayed by hours with variable presentation Can be difficult to identify cause, as multiple drugs are given early in anesthetic (e.g. antibiotics often given soon after rocuronium) Usually the faster the reaction, the more severe the course Anaphylaxis involves a combination of systemic (pulmonary, CV, GI) and dermal signs & symptoms, all due to relea
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p1475
    Intravenous dexamethasone (0.25–0.5 mg/kg) may prevent the formation of edema, and inhalation of nebulized racemic epinephrine (0.25–0.5 mL of a 2.25% solution in 2.5 mL normal saline) is often an effective treatment
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p1483
    Nebulized racemic epinephrine and intravenous dexamethasone (0.25–0.5 mg/kg) are used
  CHUNK 4: Morgan & Mikhail p261
    Halothane sensitizes the heart to the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine, so doses of epinephrine above 1.5 mcg/kg should be avoided
  CHUNK 5: Morgan & Mikhail p265
    Drug Interactions Epinephrine can be safely administered in doses up to 4.5 mcg/kg
  CHUNK 6: Morgan & Mikhail p268
    Epinephrine can be safely administered in doses up to 4.5 mcg/kg as desflurane does not sensitize the myocardium to the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine
  CHUNK 7: Stanford CA-1 p37
    Section: Blocking Agents. Blocking Agents NMBAs facilitate intubation, mechanical ventilation, and surgical relaxation There are two categories of NMBAs with distinct properties: Depolarizing (succinylcholine) Non-depolarizing (eg. rocuronium, vecuronium, cisatracurium) Postoperative residual paralysis occurs frequently. Monitoring of neuromuscular blockade and pharmacological reversal are standard of care. NMBAs should be used carefully; there are also many surgical and patient-specific contraindications. Neuromuscular blocking agents play a prominent role in the incidence of adverse reaction

=== [61] Anaphylaxis: allergen identification & long-term management ===
  CHUNK 0: StatPearls p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK482124 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK482124/ Topic: Anaphylaxis: allergen identification & long-term management Article Title: Anaphylaxis License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Kevin McLendon ; Britni T. Sternard . Authors Kevin McLendon 1 ; Britni T. Sternard 2 . Last Update: January 26, 2023 . Continuing Education Activity Ana
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1287
    Section: B. Hemostasis. wash out the nitrous oxide depends on many factors, including alveolar ventilation and fresh gas flows (see Chapter 8), but 15 to 30 min is usually recommended. B. Hemostasis As with any form of microsurgery, even tiny amounts of blood can obscure the operating field. Techniques to minimize blood loss during ear surgery include mild (15°) head elevation, infiltration or topical application of epinephrine (1:50,000–1:200,000), and moderate controlled hypotension. Because coughing on the endotracheal tube during emergence (particularly during neck movement associated with
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p459
    Section: Mechanism of Action. Mechanism of Action Ketorolac is a parenteral nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that provides analgesia by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis. A peripherally acting drug, it has become a popular alternative to opioids for postoperative analgesia because of its minimal central nervous system side effects. Clinical Uses Ketorolac is indicated for the short-term (<5 days) management of pain and appears to be particularly useful in the immediate postoperative period. A standard dose of ketorolac provides analgesia equivalent to 6 to 12 mg of morphine adminis
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p2156
    Section: Clinical trials of naloxone, fibronectin, inhibitors of the coagulation cascade, and. mg/dL. In patients with hypotension that is refractory to norepinephrine plus epinephrine, vasopressin may be administered to improve blood pressure. Severe acidosis may decrease the efficacy of inotropes and should therefore be corrected (pH >7.20) with bicarbonate or THAM infusion in patients with refractory hypotension. “Renal” doses of dopamine or fenoldopam may increase urinary output and reassure clinicians, but they do not improve or protect kidney function or patient outcomes. Clinical trials
  CHUNK 4: Morgan & Mikhail p2036
    Section: Anesth. 2013 Jun;25(4):335-343.). FIGURE 54–8 Treatment of acute attacks of angioedema based on underlying etiology. ACE-I, angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitor; ARB, angiotensin receptor blocker; C1INHRP, C1 inhibitor replacement protein; FFP, fresh frozen plasma; IV, intravenous; NSAID, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug. (Reproduced with permission from Barbara D, Ronan K, Maddox D, et al. Perioperative angioedema; background, diagnosis and management. J Clin Anesth. 2013 Jun;25(4):335-343.) 2. Anaphylactic Reactions Anaphylaxis is an exaggerated response to an allergen (eg, a
  CHUNK 5: Morgan & Mikhail p391
    Section: Although these agents are adrenergic agonists, they are also considered to be. postanesthesia and intensive care units because it does so without significant ventilatory depression. Rapid administration may elevate blood pressure, but hypotension and bradycardia can occur during ongoing therapy. The recommended dosing of dexmedetomidine consists of a loading dose at 1 mcg/kg over 10 min followed by an infusion at 0.2 to 0.7 mcg/kg/h, though we recognize that clinicians administer this agent in a great many ways (including intranasally for sedation in children). Although these agents a
  CHUNK 6: Morgan & Mikhail p1475
    Intravenous dexamethasone (0.25–0.5 mg/kg) may prevent the formation of edema, and inhalation of nebulized racemic epinephrine (0.25–0.5 mL of a 2.25% solution in 2.5 mL normal saline) is often an effective treatment
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls: StatPearls   Allergic rhinitis & immunotherapy p4
    Section: Management of Complications [2]. ed consent should be gathered. Management of Complications [2] Topical corticosteroids, antihistamines, or cool compresses for local reaction Epinephrine is the mainstay treatment for anaphylaxis. The physician should re-visit the benefit versus risk of continuing immunotherapy after systemic reactions. [2] Clinical Significance Allergen immunotherapy can reduce short-term symptoms in allergic asthma; however, there is a moderate increase in the risk of systemic and local reactions based on a meta-analysis. [6] A 3-year course of either sublingual or s

=== [62] Anaphylaxis: diagnosis & acute management ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p2036
    Section: Anesth. 2013 Jun;25(4):335-343.). FIGURE 54–8 Treatment of acute attacks of angioedema based on underlying etiology. ACE-I, angiotensin- converting enzyme inhibitor; ARB, angiotensin receptor blocker; C1INHRP, C1 inhibitor replacement protein; FFP, fresh frozen plasma; IV, intravenous; NSAID, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug. (Reproduced with permission from Barbara D, Ronan K, Maddox D, et al. Perioperative angioedema; background, diagnosis and management. J Clin Anesth. 2013 Jun;25(4):335-343.) 2. Anaphylactic Reactions Anaphylaxis is an exaggerated response to an allergen (eg, a
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1483
    Section: Anesthetic Considerations. obstruction or esophageal impaction, and increased battery current and voltage secondary to the change in lithium battery composition, leading to rapid and severe tissue burns. Aspiration or swallowing of a button battery is an emergency requiring immediate removal of the battery. Acute epiglottitis is a bacterial infection (most commonly Haemophilus influenzae type B) classically affecting 2to 6-year-old children but also occasionally appearing in older children and adults. It rapidly progresses from a sore throat to dysphagia and complete airway obstructio
  CHUNK 2: Miller/Baby Miller p625
    Section: Chapter 33 Obstetrics. Chapter 33 Obstetrics specificity of 88%.104 Consequently, anesthetic manage- ment should not be exclusively guided by antepartum ultrasound results. These abnormal placental implanta- tions occur more frequently in association with placenta previa. In patients with placenta previa and no previous cesarean delivery, the incidence of accreta is approxi- mately 3%. However, the risk of PAS associated with placenta previa increases with the number of previous cesarean deliveries. With one previous uterine incision, the incidence of placenta accreta has been reporte
  CHUNK 3: StatPearls p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK482124 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK482124/ Topic: Anaphylaxis: allergen identification & long-term management Article Title: Anaphylaxis License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Kevin McLendon ; Britni T. Sternard . Authors Kevin McLendon 1 ; Britni T. Sternard 2 . Last Update: January 26, 2023 . Continuing Education Activity Ana
  CHUNK 4: Stanford CA-1 p79
    Section: Latex Allergy. Latex Allergy • Obtain a careful history: – Healthcare workers (frequent exposure) – Children with spina bifida (multiple prior medical procedures/exposures) – Urogenital abnormalities (h/o multiple urogenital catheters) – Food allergies (tropical fruits [mango, kiwi, avocado, passion fruit, bananas], fig, chestnut) • Establish a latex-free environment: – Schedule patient as first case of the day – Most equipment & supplies are latex-free; if available, have a cart of latex-free alternatives available – Remove tops of multi-dose vials when drawing up drugsl with signifi
  CHUNK 5: Miller/Baby Miller p576
    Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS IOP.15 Awake endotracheal intubation may be appropriate for patients with difficult airways; however, the resultant increases in IOP can be disastrous. The risks of succinylcho- line or awake intubation on IOP must be weighed against the dangers imposed by a full stomach or difficult airway. The anesthesia provider should ask the ophthalmolo- gist if the operative repair can be delayed until the risk of aspiration is lower. If not, then proceed after careful evaluation to rule out other issues. 
  CHUNK 6: Stanford CA-1 p85
    Section: Differential Diagnosis. Differential Diagnosis Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome More common in patients receiving antidopaminergic agents or in withdrawal from dopamine agents as in Parkinson’s, usually develops over days rather than minutes to hours Thyroid Storm* Usually associated with hypokalemia fever, tachypnea, tachycardia, metabolic acidosis HR, BP, but normal EtCO2 and Temp e.g. ecstasy, cocaine, amphetamines, PCP, LSD Serotonin Syndrome associated drugs interactions MAOIs + merperidine or MAOIs+ SSRIs Iatrogenic Hyperthermia Hypercarbia from CO2 insufflation for laparoscopy 
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls: StatPearls   Angioedema p4
    Section: Long-term prophylaxis. ent for hereditary and acquired angioedema. [29] Long-term prophylaxis C1 Inhibitor is the first-line long-term prophylaxis, while the androgens are used as second-line agents. [2] Hereditary angioedema with mutations in the F12 gene is treated as follows: Discontinuing trigger factors (estrogen-containing oral contraceptives, hormonal replacement therapy, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors) Treating with plasma-derived C1 inhibitor for acute attacks. Preventing attacks with progestins, tranexamic acid, and danazol. [30] Acquired angioedema related to angi

=== [63] Angioedema: classification & management ===
  CHUNK 0: StatPearls: StatPearls   Angioedema p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK538489 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK538489/ Topic: Angioedema Article Title: Angioedema License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Ruba J. Memon ; Vivekanand Tiwari . Authors Ruba J. Memon 1 ; Vivekanand Tiwari 2 . Last Update: August 8, 2023 . Continuing Education Activity Angioedema is non-pitting edema that involves subcutaneous 
  CHUNK 1: StatPearls: StatPearls   Angioedema  classification & management p1
    Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK430901 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK430901/ Topic: Angioedema: classification & management Article Title: Angioedema: classification & management License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf
  CHUNK 2: StatPearls: StatPearls   Angioedema  classification & management p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK430901 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK430901/ Topic: Angioedema: classification & management Article Title: Angioedema: classification & management License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Jennifer Goldin ; Mary E. Cataletto . Authors Jennifer Goldin 1 ; Mary E. Cataletto 2 . Last Update: May 3, 2024 . Continuing Education Activity 
  CHUNK 3: StatPearls: StatPearls   Angioedema  classification & management p12
    es and treatment guidelines vary based on age. This activity will address asthma severity and management in adolescents and adults aged 12 or older. Please see StatPearls' companion resource, " Pediatric Asthma ," for additional information regarding the treatment of asthma in infants and children. Every patient should have access to a bronchodilator with a rapid onset of action. Traditionally, this has been a short-acting β-agonist (SABA) such as albuterol. However, GINA recommends a low-dose glucocorticoid/formoterol inhaler, such as 80 to 160 mcg budesonide/4.5 mcg formoterol inhaled by mou
  CHUNK 4: StatPearls: StatPearls   Angioedema  classification & management p13
    lic asthma who are not adequately controlled can utilize mepolizumab and reslizumab, monoclonal antibodies against IL-5, benralizumab, a monoclonal antibody against the IL-5 receptor α-subunit, and dupilumab a monoclonal antibody against the IL-4 receptor α-subunit. Tezepelumab is a human monoclonal IgG2-λ antibody that binds to TSLP, preventing its interaction with the TSLP receptor complex. [32] Patients experiencing an acute asthma exacerbation may manage symptoms at home or need urgent medical care depending on their symptom severity and risk factors for fatal asthma. These risk factors in
  CHUNK 5: StatPearls: StatPearls   Angioedema  classification & management p17
    Section: Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes. uch as allergens, air pollution, and tobacco smoke, can empower them to make informed lifestyle choices. Furthermore, clinicians should highlight the significance of having an asthma action plan, which outlines steps to take during worsening symptoms or exacerbations. See the National Heart and Lung Institute's website, " Asthma Action Plan ," for a printable version of an action plan. Patient education should also prioritize the recognition of early warning signs of an asthma attack and prompt seeking of medical attention when necessary. Routine fo
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls: StatPearls   Angioedema  classification & management p1
    Fatalities related to asthma highlight missed opportunities in recognizing disease severity and escalating therapy, emphasizing the critical role of continual patient education and routine symptom control assessment for successful long-term management
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls: StatPearls   Angioedema  classification & management p1
    Implement evidence-based treatment strategies for asthma management, considering individual patient characteristics and preferences

=== [64] Antimicrobial Selection: Beta-Lactams ===
  CHUNK 0: MGH Housestaff Manual p122
    Section: Infectious Disease. Infectious Disease Bloodstream Infections & Endocarditis Shannon Cleary B L O O D S T R E A M I N F E C T I O N S (BSI) Evaluation (JAMA 2012;308;502) 1. Sources: lines, procedures, meningitis, endocarditis, osteomyelitis (OM), septic arthritis, PNA, UTI, SSTI, abscesses 2. When should I/should I not send blood cultures? (JHM 2017;12:510; JHM 2016;11:336) Predictive signs/symptoms Predictive clinical scenario Other Considerations Fever+chills (+LR 1.1-6.1); rigors (+LR 4.7, Amer J Med 2005;118:1417); SIRS (-LR 0.09), normal food intake (-LR 0.18) High risk: septic 
  CHUNK 1: StatPearls: StatPearls   Antimicrobial Stewardship p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK572068 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK572068/ Topic: Antimicrobial Stewardship Article Title: Antimicrobial Stewardship License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Antimicrobial Stewardship Jishna Shrestha ; Farah Zahra ; Preston Cannady, Jr . Authors Jishna Shrestha 1 ; Farah Zahra 2 ; Preston Cannady, Jr 3 . Last Update: June 20, 202
  CHUNK 2: Society Guideline: Guideline   KDIGO 2012 AKI p64
    Section: Chapter 3.8: Prevention of aminoglycosideand. Chapter 3.8: Prevention of aminoglycosideand amphotericin-related AKI AMINOGLYCOSIDE NEPHROTOXICITY Aminoglycoside antimicrobial agents are highly potent, bactericidal antibiotics effective against multiple Gram- negative, and selected Gram-positive bacterial pathogens when administered with beta-lactams and other cell-wall active antimicrobial agents.267–269 Progressive antimicrobial resistance to other antimicrobial agents and lack of new alternatives to aminoglycoside antibiotics have caused a recent increase in their use. Aminoglycosid
  CHUNK 3: StatPearls: StatPearls   Antimicrobial Stewardship p1
    [2] Antimicrobial Stewardship(AMS) refers to the optimal selection, dosing, and duration of antimicrobial treatment resulting in the best clinical outcome with minimal side effects to the patients and minimal impact on subsequent resistance
  CHUNK 4: Society Guideline p22
    Section: Immunocompromised patients are particularly. Immunocompromised patients are particularly vulnerable to viral infections, including patients with neutropenia, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, hematological malignancies and hematopoi- etic stem cell transplantation or solid organ transplants; in these patients herpes simplex virus, Epstein-Barr, virus, cytomegalovirus, and respiratory viruses such as adenoviruses, can cause severe disease (229). Tropical and subtropical regions have endemic and epidemic outbreaks of zoonotic viral infections including those caused by Dengue
  CHUNK 5: Society Guideline: Guideline   IDSA 2025 Complicated UTI Executive Summary p7
    Section: STEP 3: OTHER PATIENT-SPECIFIC CONSIDERATIONS (prevention of possible undesirable. STEP 3: OTHER PATIENT-SPECIFIC CONSIDERATIONS (prevention of possible undesirable events) In patients with cUTI (including pyelonephritis), should selection of empiric antibiotic therapy be further guided by patient-specific considerations? In patients suspected of cUTI, empiric antibiotic therapy selection should account for patient-specific considerations (e.g. risk of allergic reaction, contraindications, or drug-drug interactions) to avoid preventable adverse events (good practice statement). STEP 4
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls: StatPearls   Antimicrobial Stewardship p10
    Section: Nursing, Allied Health, and Interprofessional Team Monitoring. staff can assist as a part of diagnostic stewardship by guiding proper use of the test. They also help in creating local anti-microbiogram, which help optimize antimicrobial prescriptions. The infection prevention team and epidemiologist assist in tracking, analyzing, and reporting antimicrobial resistance and adverse effect trends. Quality improvement and patient safety teams can advocate for resources dedicated to stewardship interventions. Information technology staff are crucial to incorporating protocols into the stew
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls: StatPearls   Viral & Other Encephalitis p11
    Section: Antimicrobial Resistance. ividuals, broad-spectrum coverage is indicated with vancomycin or daptomycin plus cefepime or meropenem. The cornerstone of management for NF is prompt surgical exploration and debridement of necrotic tissue plus empiric broad-spectrum antibiotics. Empiric antibiotics should cover gram-positive, gram-negative, and anaerobic organisms and should be initiated immediately after blood cultures are obtained. Options include a carbapenem (eg, imipenem, meropenem, or ertapenem) or piperacillin-tazobactam plus vancomycin or daptomycin (to cover for MRSA) plus clindam

=== [65] Appendicitis ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1438
    of a 0.5 mEq/mL 4.2% solution) should usually be given only for severe metabolic acidosis documented by blood gas measurements and when ventilation is adequate. It may also be administered during prolonged (>5 min) resuscitation—particularly if blood gas measurements are not readily available. The infusion rate should not exceed 1 mEq/kg/min to avoid hypertonicity and intracranial hemorrhage. As previously noted, to prevent hypertonicity-induced hepatic injury, the tip of the umbilical vein catheter should not be in the liver. Calcium gluconate 100 mg/kg (CaCl2, 30 mg/kg) should be given only 
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p1438
    Appendicitis in a Pregnant Woman Section: Appendicitis in a Pregnant Woman
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p1438
    CASE DISCUSSION Section: Appendicitis in a Pregnant Woman
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p2152
    Intraabdominal infections due to perforated ulcer, diverticulitis, appendicitis, and acalculous cholecystitis can develop in critically ill patients whether or not they are recovering from a surgical procedure
  CHUNK 4: Morgan & Mikhail p2152
    Section: Preservation of gastric acidity inhibits the overgrowth of gram-negative organisms in. chemotherapy, prolonged use of invasive devices, respiratory failure, kidney failure, head trauma, and burns are established risk factors for nosocomial infections. Patients with burns involving more than 40% of body surface area have a significantly increased risk of mortality from infections. After burn injury, early removal of the necrotic eschar followed by skin grafting and wound closure appears to reverse immunological defects and reduce infection risk. Nosocomial cases of pneumonia are usuall
  CHUNK 5: Morgan & Mikhail p2226
    Section: Apixaban, 977. Apixaban, 977 APL valve, 67 Aplastic crisis, 1231 Apnea, 1289 Apneic oxygenation, 314, 572, 578 Apneic threshold, 157, 186, 531–532 Apneustic center, 530 Appendicitis, 899–900 Aprepitant, 1320 Aprotinin, 451 Arachnoiditis, 1002 Arcuate arteries, 663 Arginine, 1250 Arginine vasopressin (AVP), 367, 473, 661 Arnold–Chiari malformation, 632 Arrest of descent, 883 antiarrhythmic drugs for, 377t–379t pancuronium as cause of, 211 Arteria radicularis magna, 973 Arterial blood gases, 1334, 1334f Arterial blood pressure. See Blood pressure, arterial Arterial concentration (FA) of
  CHUNK 6: Morgan & Mikhail p2319
    Section: Pregabalin, 190–191, 288, 1102t, 1150t. Pregabalin, 190–191, 288, 1102t, 1150t Pregnancy. See also Labor and delivery amniotic fluid embolism, 890 antepartum hemorrhage, 884–885 abruptio placentae, 885 placenta previa, 884–885 uterine rupture, 885 appendicitis in, 899–900 cardiac arrest in, 1302–1303, 1309f case discussion, 899–900 chorioamnionitis, 885–886 dystocia/abnormal fetal presentations/positions in abnormal vertex presentations, 884 breech presentation, 884 primary dysfunctional labor, 883–884 heart disease and, 490, 889 hypertensive disorders, 887–889 anesthetic management, 
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls: StatPearls   Appendicitis p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK493193 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK493193/ Topic: Appendicitis Article Title: Appendicitis License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Saran Lotfollahzadeh ; Richard A. Lopez ; Jeffrey G. Deppen . Authors Saran Lotfollahzadeh 1 ; Richard A. Lopez 2 ; Jeffrey G. Deppen 3 . Last Update: February 12, 2024 . Continuing Education Activit

=== [66] Asthma: Acute Severe and Status Asthmaticus ===
  CHUNK 0: StatPearls: StatPearls   Asthma  Acute Severe and Status Asthmaticus p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK592422 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK592422/ Topic: Asthma: Acute Severe and Status Asthmaticus Article Title: Asthma and COPD Overlap License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Asthma and COPD Overlap Mohammed T. Awad ; Abdulghani Sankari . Authors Mohammed T. Awad 1 ; Abdulghani Sankari 2 . Last Update: June 11, 2023 . Continuing E
  CHUNK 1: StatPearls: StatPearls   Asthma  Acute Severe and Status Asthmaticus p5
    Section: Differential Diagnosis. clidinium, according to a randomized, open-label crossover pilot study in 17 patients with ACO. [26] Another critical pharmacological intervention for patients with ACO is biological treatment which has been shown to reduce the exacerbations and use of oral steroids among asthma patients. In one study, the response to treatment with omalizumab was evaluated between individuals with asthma-COPD overlap and asthma patients. They discovered that individuals with severe allergic asthma and overlapping COPD experienced improved asthma control and health-related qual
  CHUNK 2: StatPearls: StatPearls   Asthma  Acute Severe and Status Asthmaticus p2
    s review will describe the clinical presentation, evaluation, and management of patients with ACO. There is no distinct cause for ACO but rather a continuum phenomenon for airflow obstruction between asthma and COPD. The causes are usually a combination of both COPD and asthma causes. This includes cigarette smoking and environmental factors. Most epidemiologic studies show that tobacco use is the most significant risk factor for COPD. For instance, a retrospective cohort study (n = 8045) discovered that subjects who smoked cigarettes for the entire 25-year observation period had a higher risk
  CHUNK 3: StatPearls: StatPearls   Asthma  Acute Severe and Status Asthmaticus p6
    are congestive heart failure, bronchiectasis, and bronchiolitis obliterans are included in the differential diagnosis of ACO. Wheezing is a symptom of congestive heart failure (CHF), which is sometimes challenging to distinguish from ACO. The diagnosis of CHF can be made based on a history of orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, fine basal crackles on chest auscultation, and characteristic features on chest radiography. [32] Other conditions like bronchiectasis can present as ACO. However, the physical examination of bronchiectasis patients reveals coarse crackles and potentially clubbi
  CHUNK 4: StatPearls: StatPearls   Asthma  Acute Severe and Status Asthmaticus p3
    Section: They have at least 10 pack-years of tobacco use. ure to toxic particles or gases (such as tobacco smoking and indoor biomass fuel use) plays a vital role in the pathophysiology of ACO. [3] Patients with ACO usually have the same asthma and COPD symptoms, including cough, sputum production, shortness of breath, and wheezing. However, exacerbation rates were 4 to 5 times higher in ACO patients compared with those with asthma or COPD alone. [15] Also, it was found that patients with ACO have more emergency department visits and hospital admission. [10] The physical examination findings i
  CHUNK 5: StatPearls: StatPearls   Asthma  Acute Severe and Status Asthmaticus p1
    Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK592422 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK592422/ Topic: Asthma: Acute Severe and Status Asthmaticus Article Title: Asthma and COPD Overlap License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls: StatPearls   Asthma  Acute Severe and Status Asthmaticus p7
    Section: Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes. sk factors for asthma, smoking can lead to ACO development and makes symptoms more severe. Clinicians may need to assist with smoking cessation. Reduce the patient's risk of infection because some infections can exacerbate ACO symptoms. By receiving specific vaccinations, patients can reduce their risk. These include receiving an annual flu shot, the pneumococcal vaccine, and subsequent doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. Avoid triggers, such as dust or pollution, that worsen a patient's breathing. Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes This activity discuss
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls: StatPearls   Asthma  Acute Severe and Status Asthmaticus p4
    and pharmacological. Nonpharmacological measures include smoking cessation, which helps reduce the rate of FEV1 decline. [19] Also, avoidance of exposure to other sources of smoke can be helpful. Since infections are one of the leading causes of exacerbation of asthma and COPD, getting the appropriate vaccines will help to reduce those exacerbations. This includes yearly influenza vaccine and pneumonia vaccines. Other interventions include education about proper inhaler technique and referral to pulmonary rehabilitation. [20] Regarding pharmacological interventions, inhaled corticosteroids (IC

=== [67] Bacterial Meningitis ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1037
    Section: Anesthetic Considerations for Patients with. arrhythmias due to conduction defects. Therapy includes treatment of the underlying neoplasm, if present; plasma exchange; and administration of immunoglobulin, corticosteroids, and immunomodulators such as metho​trexate, cyclosporine, and tumor necrosis factor-α inhibitors. Anesthetic Considerations for Patients with Neuromuscular Paraneoplastic Syndromes Patients with LEMS and other neuromuscular paraneoplastic syndromes are very sensitive to both depolarizing and nondepolarizing NMBs. Volatile agents alone are often sufficient to provide
  CHUNK 1: StatPearls p1
    Section: Source: StatPearls. Source: StatPearls NCBI Bookshelf NBK ID: NBK470351 URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK470351/ Topic: Bacterial Meningitis: Diagnosis & Emergency Management Article Title: Bacterial Meningitis License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Tyler J. Runde ; Fatima Anjum ; John W. Hafner . Authors Tyler J. Runde 1 ; Fatima Anjum 2 ; John W. Hafner 3 . Last Update: August 8, 2023 . Continu
  CHUNK 2: MGH Housestaff Manual p123
    Section: Infectious Disease. Infectious Disease Meningitis & Encephalitis Justine Enns B A C T E R I A L M E N I N G I T I S Clinical Features History: 95% have ≥2 of: fever, neck stiffness, AMS, HA (NEJM 2004;351:1849). Lethargy, hypothermia may be common in elderly. Abd pain, peritonitis can be seen w/ VP shunts. Can also cause seizures, stroke (infectious vasculitis), hydrocephalus, CN deficits (esp TB and fungal) (Continuum 2021;27:836). Exam: most findings more Sp than Sn. Nuchal rigidity 30% Sn, 68% Sp. Kernig’s 5% Sn, 95% Sp. Brudzinski’s 5% Sn, 95% Sp (CID 2002;35:46). Jolt sign (worse
  CHUNK 3: MGH Housestaff Manual p263
    Section: Fluid Analysis. Fluid Analysis Maggie Selesky L U M B A R P U N C T U R E I N T E R P R E T A T I O N (cm H2O) Predominant cell Protein (mg/dL) Further CSF Testing 9–18 0–5 50–75 15–40 Bacterial meningitis 20–50 <100 to >10k >80% PMN <40 100–1000 Cx, Gram stain Viral meningitis (Enteroviruses, HSV, VZV, arboviruses) 9–20 50–1000 Lymph; early echovirus/HSV can have 80% PMN >45; low in LCM and mumps <200 HSV/VZV PCR, consider further viral PCR or Ab if clinical suspicion; d/w ID Lyme meningitis 9–20 10–300 Ab testing paired with serum TB meningitis 18–30 50-300 <50 50-300 >2000 if subar
  CHUNK 4: Miller/Baby Miller p326
    Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT Epinephrine and phenylephrine can prolong sensory and motor blockade when added to local anesthetics. The α1-adrenergic-mediated vasoconstriction reduces sys- temic local anesthetic uptake, and epinephrine may also enhance analgesia via a direct α2-adrenergic-mediated effect. Tetracaine, lidocaine, and bupivacaine spinal anesthesia can all be prolonged by epinephrine. Although there are no human data to support the theory, there is a concern that poten
  CHUNK 5: MGH Housestaff Manual p195
    Section: Allergy & Immunology. Allergy & Immunology Primary Immunodeficiency Natalia Sutherland P R I M A R Y I M M U N O D E F I C I E N C Y D I S O R D E R S (JACI 2016 1109-1110,) Definition: inherited deficits of immune system → increased incidence/severity/frequency of infections Prevalence: 1/1200-2000 pts Warning signs in adults: ≥4 infection requiring antibiotics/year (ear infxn, sinusitis, bronchitis, PNA, otitis media), infection not responsive to antibiotics, ≥2 severe infections (osteo, septic arthritis, meningitis, sepsis), ≥2 PNA within 3 years, chronic diarrhea, recurrent deep a
  CHUNK 6: MGH Housestaff Manual p226
    Section: Primary Care. Primary Care HEENT Concerns Sahar Shahamatdar C H R O N I C C O U G H (AFP 2017;96:575; NEJM 2016;375:1544) Time course: acute (≤3w) vs. subacute (3-8w) vs. chronic (>8w) Common causes: upper airway cough syndrome (UACS), asthma, GERD; these three account for 90% (18-62% pts have combo) General approach: 1) History (smoking, URI, ACEi use, GERD sx); remove possible offending agent 2) Consider CXR if cough >8 weeks, especially if suspicion for UACS/asthma/GERD 3) Start empiric tx for UACS/asthma/GERD sequentially until resolution  tx should be added to initial regimen 4
  CHUNK 7: StatPearls p2
    other less common causes. Hemophilus influenzae is still occasionally encountered in nonvaccinated individuals. Nosocomial infections are caused by S. pneumonia , Staphylococcus aureus , Staphylococcus albus , and gram-negative bacilli. As per Thigpen etal. out of the 1670 cases reported in the U.S. during 2003–2007, S. pneumoniae was the predominant infective species (58.0%), followed by GBS (18.1%), N. meningitidis (13.9%), H. influenzae (6.7%), and L. monocytogenes (3.4%). [4] Infectious meningitis may also be caused by viruses, fungi, and protozoa. Meningitis may also be non-infectious in 

=== [68] Basic Life Support (BLS) & Chain of Survival ===
  CHUNK 0: Miller/Baby Miller p852
    Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE 6. Idris AH, Guffey D, Pepe PE, Brown SP, etal. Resuscitation Outcomes Consor- tium Investigators: Chest compression rates and survival following out-of- hospital cardiac arrest. Crit Care Med. 2015;43:840–848. 7. Rea TD, Fahrenbruch C, Culley L, etal. CPR with chest compression alone or with rescue breathing. N Engl J Med. 2010;363:423–433. 8. Dumas F, Rea TD, Fahrenbruch C, etal. Chest compression alone cardiopulmo- nary resuscitation is associated with better long-term survival compared with sta
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p2057
    Section: Changes in drug recommendations are a notable reaffirmation of epinephrine. guidelines suggest that a lack of a PETco2 greater than 10 mm Hg after 20 min in an intubated patient is associated with reduced likelihood of ROSC. An exception to this determination applies to nonintubated patients, in whom a specific PETCO2 cutoff should not be used to aid in the decision to end resuscitative efforts. Changes in drug recommendations are a notable reaffirmation of epinephrine during cardiac arrest. Additionally, vasopressin, alone or in combination with epinephrine, offers no advantage over 
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p2055
    Section: 4. Defibrillation. 4. Defibrillation 5. Ventilation 6. Pharmacotherapy FIGURE 55–1 Universal algorithm for adult emergency cardiac care. ACS, acute coronary syndrome; BLS, basic life support; CPR, cardiopulmonary resuscitation; IV, intravenous; OD, overdose; VF/VT, ventricular fibrillation and pulseless ventricular tachycardia. (Data from Panchal AR, Bartos JA, Cabañas JG, et al: Part 3: Adult Basic and Advanced Life Support: 2020 American Heart Association Guidelines for Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and Emergency Cardiovascular Care, Circulation. 2020 Oct 20;142(16_suppl_2): S366-S4
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p1324
    Section: Circulation. cardiovascular collapse shortly after instituting mechanical ventilation may signal the presence of a pneumothorax. Any trauma-related cardiovascular collapse is managed by disconnecting the patient from mechanical ventilation and performing bilateral needle thoracostomies. This intervention is accomplished by inserting a 14-gauge intravenous catheter into the second intercostal space in the midclavicular line, followed by a larger, more effective thoracostomy tube placed in the midaxillary line. No trauma patient should die without having potential tension pneumothorax r
  CHUNK 4: StatPearls: StatPearls   ACLS  Non Shockable Rhythms (PEA & Asystole) p2
    Section: Team Performance and Its Critical Impact on Resuscitation. high-quality CPR, and defibrillation of shockable rhythms. Adequate ACLS delivery relies heavily on basic life support (BLS) principles, with high-quality chest compressions being the cornerstone of neurologically intact survival. High-quality chest compressions are performed at the correct rate and depth, with complete recoil and minimal interruption. The adequate delivery of resuscitation, the education of the lay public and resuscitation providers, and the establishment of a well-functioning chain of survival are critical f
  CHUNK 5: Morgan & Mikhail p2056
    Section: The sequence of steps in resuscitation has been changed since the 2010. FIGURE 55–2 Comprehensive emergency cardiac care algorithm. BLS, basic life support; CPR, cardiopulmonary resuscitation; IO, intraosseous; IV, intravenous; PEA, pulseless electrical activity; VF/VT, ventricular fibrillation and pulseless ventricular tachycardia. The sequence of steps in resuscitation has been changed since the 2010 guidelines from ABC (airway and breathing first, before compression) to CAB (compression first, with airway and breathing treated later). The previous guidelines opine that titrating re
  CHUNK 6: StatPearls: StatPearls   ACLS  Non Shockable Rhythms (PEA & Asystole) p2
    Adequate ACLS delivery relies heavily on basic life support (BLS) principles, with high-quality chest compressions being the cornerstone of neurologically intact survival
  CHUNK 7: Miller/Baby Miller p844
    Section: Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE. Section VI CONSULTANT ANESTHETIC PRACTICE VF/VT. A study of OHCA patients showed favorable results with the administration of lidocaine compared with placebo, but not amiodarone.12 Vasopressin, a non- adrenergic vasopressor, was removed from the 2015 ACLS guidelines because of a lack of demonstrated benefit when compared with epinephrine.20 Drugs used for ACLS are associated with ROSC but not with improved survival to hospital discharge or neurologic recovery. Administra- tion of steroids along with vasoactive drugs may improve the likelihood

=== [69] Bowel Obstruction ===
  CHUNK 0: Morgan & Mikhail p1477
    Section: Thus, elective (particularly outpatient) procedures should be deferred until the. and central apnea for up to 24 h. In fact, even full-term infants can experience rare apneic spells following general anesthesia. Risk factors for postanesthetic apnea include a low gestational age at birth, anemia (<30%), hypothermia, sepsis, and neurological abnormalities. The risk of postanesthetic apnea may be decreased by intravenous administration of caffeine (10 mg/kg) or aminophylline. Thus, elective (particularly outpatient) procedures should be deferred until the preterm infant reaches the age 
  CHUNK 1: Morgan & Mikhail p260
    Section: Contraindications. patients who are not yet in the third trimester. Nitrous oxide may also alter the immunologic response to infection by affecting chemotaxis and motility of polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Although nitrous oxide is relatively insoluble in comparison with other inhalation agents, it is 35 times more soluble than nitrogen in blood. Thus, it tends to diffuse into air-containing cavities more rapidly than nitrogen is absorbed by the bloodstream. For instance, if a patient with a 100-mL pneumothorax inhales 50% nitrous oxide, the gas content of the pneumothorax will tend to
  CHUNK 2: Morgan & Mikhail p1478
    Section: CONGENITAL DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA. and fluid and electrolyte replacement before prompt transport to the operating room. These patients are at increased risk for pulmonary aspiration. Depending on the size of the patient, rapid sequence induction (or awake intubation) should be employed. Patients with volvulus are usually hypovolemic and acidotic and may be prone to hypotension. Postoperative ventilation will often be necessary, making an opioid-based anesthetic a reasonable choice. Fluid resuscitation, likely including blood products, with correction of acidosis is usually necessary. Ar
  CHUNK 3: Morgan & Mikhail p1902
    Section: Why is the patient hyperchloremic and acidotic (normal arterial blood pH is. appropriate considering basic maintenance requirements, blood loss, and the additional fluid losses usually associated with this type of surgery.) Why is the patient hyperchloremic and acidotic (normal arterial blood pH is 7.35–7.45)? Operations for supravesical urinary diversion utilize a segment of bowel (ileum, ileocecal segment, jejunum, or sigmoid colon) that is made to function as a conduit or reservoir. The simplest and most common procedure utilizes an isolated loop of ileum as a conduit: the proximal
  CHUNK 4: Morgan & Mikhail p1077
    Section: TABLE 30–5 Risk factors for intraabdominal hypertension and abdominal. comorbid problems, with similar adverse impact on kidney function via the same mechanisms (Table 30–5; see Chapters 31 and 39). TABLE 30–5 Risk factors for intraabdominal hypertension and abdominal compartment syndrome. Diminished abdominal well compliance Acute respiratory failure, especially mechanical ventilation with high mean airway pressure (ie, high positive end-expiratory pressure) Abdominal surgery with primary fascial or tight closure Major trauma/burns Prone positioning or head of bed >30° High BMI, cent
  CHUNK 5: Morgan & Mikhail p1140
    to prevent bowel distention. Most radical prostatectomies are performed laparoscopically, and nearly all laparoscopic prostatectomies in the United States are performed with robot assistance. When compared with open retropubic prostatectomy, laparoscopic robot-assisted prostatectomy is associated with a longer procedure time but with less blood loss and fewer blood transfusions, lower postoperative pain scores and lower opioid requirements, less postoperative nausea and vomiting, and shorter hospital length of stay. The steep Trendelenburg position can lead to head and neck tissue edema and in
  CHUNK 6: Morgan & Mikhail p1170
    Section: Serum Aminotransferases (Transaminases). Serum Aminotransferases (Transaminases) These enzymes are released into the circulation as a result of hepatocellular injury or death. Two aminotransferases are most commonly measured: aspartate aminotransferase (AST), also known as serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), also known as serum glutamic pyruvic-transferase (SGPT). Serum Alkaline Phosphatase Alkaline phosphatase is produced by the liver, bone, small bowel, kidneys, and placenta and is excreted into bile. Normal serum alkaline phosphatase 
  CHUNK 7: Stanford CA-1 p73
    Section: What is laryngospasm?. What is laryngospasm? – Closure of the true vocal cords (+/- the false vocal cords) from the action of laryngeal muscles →occlusion of the glottis/laryngeal inlet – Mediated by Superior Laryngeal Nerve – Consequences include hypoxia, hypercapnia, and negative pressure pulmonary edema (NPPE) Predisposing Factors – Stage 2 of anesthesia (excitement/delirium) – Light anesthesia relative to surgical stimulation – Mechanical irritants to the airway • Blood, mucous, vomit, secretions • ETT (RR 12) > LMA (RR 7) > facemask • Suctioning – Reactive airway disease, eczema,
