=== 330: Substance use disorders — preoperative assessment ===
  [Morgan & Mikhail p1491]
  careful review of patients’ medication lists can reveal the routine use of oral hypoglycemic agents, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers, antiplatelet agents, statins, and anticoagulants. Patients with type 2 diabetes who are taking SGLT-2 inhibitors and who are undergoing surgery or hospitalized for major illness are at risk for diabetic ketoacidosis, including euglycemic diabetic ketoacidosis (see Chapter 35). Patients anticipating surgery should be instructed to discontinue these medications at least 3 (canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, or empagliflozin) or 4 days (ertugliflozin) before scheduled surgery to minimize the risk of postoperative diabetic ketoacidosis. Blood glucose levels should be appropriately monitored and managed until normal oral intake has resumed following serious illness or surgery, at which time the SGLT-2 medication can be resum

  [Miller/Baby Miller p676]
  Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS ability to make an informed choice.32 Assessing for mood disorders such as depression is also an essential part of the process, as is evaluating for substance use disorders, the latter of which is commonly screened using the CAGE questionnaire.33 Often, subclinical impairments in these domains can be challenging to identify but can have important consequences during the perioperative period. Functional capacity is broadly assessed by evaluating a patient's ability to carry out activities of daily living (ADLs) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs) (Box 35.2). Impairments in preoperative functional status correlate with a number of postoperative complications. The recovery plan for an elderly patient may require specific attention to nutritional support, physical therapy and r

  [Miller/Baby Miller p932]
  Section: Index. analgesics, 803 as analgesics, 131 biased μ-receptor agonists, 138, 139f bolus front-end kinetics and, 127–128 bolus injection of, simulation of, 128 clinical application of, 137 clinical indications for, 137 clinical pharmacology of, 127 codeine as, 134 constant rate infusions of, clinical implications of, 128–129 context-sensitive half-time (CSHT), simulation, 129 developments for, 138 drug interactions with, 132 drug selection and administration of, 137 effect of, pulse of, 137–138 as epidural additives, 306 fentanyl as, 125, 135 formulation of, rational administration strategy for, 138 gender and, 134 hepatic failure and, 132 hyperalgesia induced by, 720 kidney failure and, 133 mechanism of, 126 metabolism of, 127 minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) and, 132 morphine as, 135 multimodal general anesthesia, 138 nausea and vomiting and, 131 neuraxial, 586 neurodegenerat

  [Miller/Baby Miller p698]
  Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS STOP-BANG score ≥3 were associated with an increased risk of postoperative complications.11 The ASA has also published practice guidelines for perioperative management of OSA. The ASA Task Force recommends that the following factors be considered when determining whether inpatient or outpatient care is most appropriate for a patient with OSA who requires surgery: (1) sleep apnea status, (2) anatomic and physi- ologic abnormalities, (3) status of coexisting diseases, (4) nature of surgery, (5) type of anesthesia, (6) need for postoperative opioids, (7) patient age, (8) adequacy of postdischarge observation, and (9) capabilities of the outpatient facility.12 Obesity has been a much-debated issue in outpatient anesthesia. A 1999 observational study of over 17,000 patients undergoing ambulator

  [Miller/Baby Miller p936]
  Section: Index. hypertensive disorders of, 596 intrauterine fetal hypoxia, avoidance, 602 multiple births, 595 multiple gestations, 595 nonobstetric surgery during, 602 pain pathways, 584f placenta accreta spectrum, 600, 601f placenta previa, 599 preeclampsia, 596–597, 597b preterm labor, prevention, 603 retained placenta, 600 teratogenic drugs, avoidance, 602 testing, 210 trauma in, 790 anatomy of, 790 anti-D immunoglobulin, 791 aortocaval compression, 790, 791f causes of, 790 delivery, 791 fetal monitoring, 791 maternal airway, 790 maternal physiology, 790 radiation exposure, 791 uterine atony, 600 uterine rupture, 599 Pregnant women cardiovascular system changes in, 578, 578t gastrointestinal changes in, 581 hemorrhage in, 598 hepatic changes in, 582 massive hemorrhage in, 599 nervous system changes in, 581 physiologic changes in, 578 pulmonary system changes in, 580 renal changes in,

  [MGH Housestaff Manual p3]
  Section: MGH Housestaff Manual. MGH Housestaff Manual Table of Contents Adrenal Insufficiency Acute Kidney Injury Pituitary Disorders Glomerular Disease Calcium Disorders Chronic Kidney Disease Osteoporosis & Vitamin D Dialysis & Transplant Thyroid Disorders & Male Hypogonadism Advanced Diuresis ALLERGY & IMMUNOLOGY Acid-Base Disorders Drug & Contrast Allergy Sodium Disorders Angioedema & Anaphylaxis Potassium Disorders Mast Cell Disorders Magnesium & Phosphorus Disorders Primary Immunodeficiency IV Fluids & Electrolyte Repletion Urinalysis & Nephrolithiasis Altered Mental Status INFECTIOUS DISEASE Empiric Antibiotics & Antibiogram Headache & Vertigo Multidrug Resistant Organisms Stroke & TIA Community Acquired Pneumonia CNS Emergencies HAP/VAP & Aspiration Pneumonia Viral Respiratory/Head & Neck Infections Weakness & Neuromuscular Disorders Urinary Tract Infections Skin & Soft Tissue In

  [Miller/Baby Miller p222]
  Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT encountered in preoperative evaluation, organized by organ system. Many conditions are addressed by evidence- based clinical practice guidelines from anesthesiology and other specialties. However, substantial clinical judgment is still required to determine how guidelines apply to an individual patient. In many instances clinical practice guidelines provide advice based on expert opinion and not necessarily evidence from clinical trials. In addition, practice guidelines must be considered in conjunction with patient preferences, although it is the anesthesia provider's responsibility to emphasize appropriate evidence when presenting management options to the patient. Additional discussion of the pathophysiology and anesthetic implications of coex

  [Miller/Baby Miller p450]
  Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT poorly reproducible. Furthermore, a normal bleeding time does not predict adequate hemostasis during surgery, nor does an abnormal bleeding time predict abnormal surgi- cal bleeding. As a result, the bleeding time may be used to help with diagnosis of inherited platelet disorders, but is not recommended as a preoperative screening test.20 Platelet Aggregometry The technique for platelet aggregometry was developed in the 1960s and soon became the gold standard for assess- ment of platelet function. The classic method involves centrifugation of patient blood to obtain platelet-rich plasma, which is then analyzed in a cuvette at 37°C placed between a light source and photocell. Addition of platelet agonists such as ADP, epinephrine, collagen, and ri

  [Miller/Baby Miller p736]
  Section: Section V THE RECOVERY PERIOD. Section V THE RECOVERY PERIOD agitation in children is between 2 and 4 years. Unlike delirium, emergence agitation typically resolves quickly and is followed by uneventful recovery. In contrast to children, the incidence of emergence agitation in adults is estimated to only be between 3% and 5%. In children emergence agitation is most frequently associated with rapid “wake up” from inhalational anesthesia. Other possi- ble etiologic factors include intrinsic characteristics of the anesthetic, postoperative pain, type of surgery, age, pre- operative anxiety, underlying temperament, and adjunct medications. Awareness of these contributors allows one to identify and treat children who are at increased risk. DELAYED AWAKENING Even after prolonged surgery and anesthesia, a response to stimulation should occur within 60 to 90 minutes. If emergence has no

  [Miller/Baby Miller p678]
  Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS of cardiac, pulmonary, and renal systems should be per- formed at a minimum before any procedure. No specific preoperative studies are recommended solely on the basis of age. Providers should order laboratory, imag- ing, and other tests as required by the patient's medical conditions and the risks posed by the procedure (also see Chapter13). Efforts to mitigate the risk of major adverse cardiac events (MACEs) often involve the 2014 Ameri- can College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) Guideline on Perioperative Cardiovascular Evaluation and Management of Patients Undergoing Noncardiac Surgery for managing preoperative cardiac testing.40 The guideline is a useful tool for adult patients of any age, though cognitive and functional limitations may make subjective assessments 

=== 331: Sympathetic blocks ===
  [Morgan & Mikhail p1785]
  Section: 3. Sympathetic Nerve Blocks. 3. Sympathetic Nerve Blocks Sympathetic blockade can be accomplished by a variety of techniques, including intrathecal, epidural, and paravertebral blocks. Unfortunately, these approaches usually block both somatic and sympathetic fibers. Problems with differential spinal and epidural techniques are discussed later in this section. The following techniques specifically block sympathetic fibers and can be used to define the role of the sympathetic system in a patient’s pain and possibly also provide long-term pain relief. The most common indications for sympathetic nerve blocks include reflex sympathetic dystrophy, visceral pain, acute herpetic neuralgia, postherpetic pain, and peripheral vascular disease. Isolated sympathetic blockade to a region is characterized by loss of sympathetic tone, as evidenced by increased cutaneous blood flow and cutaneou

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1799]
  Section: 7. Differential Neural Blockade. block, it may be more practical to obtain consent for a neurolytic procedure in advance and to follow the diagnostic block immediately with chemical neurolysis if the diagnostic procedure has resulted in pain relief. 7. Differential Neural Blockade Pharmacological or anatomic differential neural blockade has been advocated as a method of distinguishing somatic, sympathetic, and psychogenic pain mechanisms. The procedure is controversial owing to the challenges of interpreting the data and the inability to define exactly which nerve fibers or pathways are blocked, and it is rarely used. Theoretically, the pharmacological approach relies on the differential sensitivity of nerve fibers to local anesthetics. Preganglionic sympathetic (B) fibers are reported to be most sensitive, closely followed by pain (Aδ) fibers, somatosensory (Aβ) fibers, motor f

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1555]
  Section: AUTONOMIC BLOCKADE. AUTONOMIC BLOCKADE Interruption of efferent autonomic transmission at the spinal nerve roots during neuraxial blocks produces sympathetic blockade. Sympathetic outflow from the spinal cord may be described as thoracolumbar, whereas parasympathetic outflow is craniosacral. Sympathetic preganglionic nerve fibers (small, myelinated B fibers) exit the spinal cord with the spinal nerves from T1–L2 and may course many levels up or down the sympathetic chain before synapsing with a postganglionic cell in a sympathetic ganglion. In contrast, parasympathetic preganglionic fibers exit the spinal cord with the cranial and sacral nerves. Neuraxial anesthesia does not block the vagus nerve (tenth cranial nerve). The physiological responses to neuraxial blockade therefore result from decreased sympathetic tone or unopposed parasympathetic tone, or both. Cardiovascular Mani

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1798]
  Section: Temporary destruction of nerve fibers or ganglia can be accomplished by injection. modalities. Moreover, although the initial result may be excellent, the original pain may recur, or new deafferentation or central pain may develop in a majority of patients within weeks to months. Temporary destruction of nerve fibers or ganglia can be accomplished by injection of alcohol or phenol. These neurolytic agents are not selective, affecting visceral, sensory, and motor fibers equally. Ethyl alcohol 50% to 100% causes extraction of membrane phospholipids and precipitation of lipoproteins in axons and Schwann cells, whereas phenol 6% to 12% coagulates proteins. Alcohol causes severe pain on injection; thus, local anesthetic is usually administered first. For peripheral nerve blocks, alcohol may be given undiluted, but for sympathetic blocks in which large volumes are injected, it is give

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1623]
  Section: Contraindications to an interscalene block include local infection, severe. Contraindications to an interscalene block include local infection, severe coagulopathy, local anesthetic allergy, and patient refusal. A properly performed interscalene block almost invariably blocks the ipsilateral phrenic nerve (completely with nerve stimulation techniques, but less so with certain low-volume ultrasound- guided techniques), so careful consideration must be given to patients with severe pulmonary disease or preexisting contralateral phrenic nerve palsy. Bilateral interscalene blocks are absolutely contraindicated. Hemidiaphragmatic paresis may result in dyspnea, hypercapnia, and hypoxemia. Horner syndrome (myosis, ptosis, and anhidrosis) frequently results from proximal tracking of local anesthetic and blockade of sympathetic fibers to the cervicothoracic ganglion. Recurrent laryngeal 

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1540]
  Section: CHAPTER 45. CHAPTER 45 Spinal, Epidural, & Caudal Blocks KEY CONCEPTS Neuraxial anesthesia greatly expands the anesthesiologists’ armamentarium, in many cases providing alternatives to general anesthesia. Neuraxial anesthesia may also be used simultaneously with general anesthesia or afterward for postoperative analgesia. Neuraxial blocks can be performed as a single injection or with a catheter to allow intermittent boluses or continuous infusions. Performing a lumbar (subarachnoid) spinal puncture below L1 in an adult (L3 in a child) usually avoids potential needle trauma to the spinal cord. The principal site of action for neuraxial blockade is believed to be the nerve root, at least during the initial onset of block. Differential blockade typically results in sympathetic blockade (judged by temperature sensitivity) that may be two segments or more cephalad than the sensory b

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1797]
  Section: Cryoneurolysis may produce temporary analgesia (cryoanalgesia) for weeks to. controlled (60–90°C for 1–3 min) to ablate the nerve without causing excessive collateral tissue damage. RFA is commonly used for trigeminal rhizotomy and medial branch (facet) rhizotomy. It has also been used for dorsal root rhizotomy and lumbar sympathectomy, and it may be effective for medial branches of the spinal nerves that innervate facet joints. Pain relief is usually limited to 3 to 12 months due to nerve regeneration after RFA. The lesion from thermal RFA is typically ovoid in shape and dependent upon factors such as the gauge of the needle, the temperature of the needle tip, and the duration of the heating procedure. Cooling the RFA needle with a sterile water system may decrease the charring associated with thermal lesioning and extend the spread of the lesion while heating at lower temperat

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1778]
  Section: Thoracic Paravertebral Nerve Block. injection of particulate steroid with this block. Particulate steroid must not be used with cervical paravertebral nerve blocks because of possible anomalous vertebral artery anatomy in this region. Thoracic Paravertebral Nerve Block This technique may be used to block the upper thoracic dermatome segments because the scapula interferes with the intercostal technique at these levels. Unlike an intercostal nerve block, a thoracic paravertebral nerve block anesthetizes both the dorsal and ventral rami of spinal nerves. It is therefore useful in patients with pain originating from the thoracic spine, thoracic cage, or abdominal wall, including compression fractures, proximal rib fractures, and acute herpes zoster (shingles). This block is also frequently utilized for intraoperative anesthesia and for postoperative pain management in breast surger

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1747]
  Section: Causalgia (which means burning pain), first identified by Weir Mitchell in injured. innervation after a nerve injury, along with changes in central and peripheral sensitization. Genetic, inflammatory, and psychological factors may all play roles. Causalgia (which means burning pain), first identified by Weir Mitchell in injured veterans of the American Civil War, typically follows gunshot injuries or other major trauma to large nerves. The pain often has an immediate onset and is associated with allodynia, hyperpathia, and vasomotor and sudomotor dysfunction. It is exacerbated by factors that increase sympathetic tone, such as fear, anxiety, light, noise, or touch. The syndrome has a variable duration that can range from days to months or may be permanent. Causalgia commonly affects the brachial plexus, particularly the median nerve, and the tibial division of the sciatic nerve 

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1767]
  Section: PROCEDURAL THERAPY. PROCEDURAL THERAPY 1. Diagnostic & Therapeutic Blocks Local anesthetic nerve blocks are useful in delineating pain mechanisms, and they play a major role in the management of patients with acute or chronic pain. Pain relief following diagnostic nerve blockade carries favorable prognostic implications for a subsequent therapeutic series of blocks. This technique can identify patients exhibiting a placebo response and those with psychogenic mechanisms. In selected patients, “permanent” neurolytic nerve blocks may be appropriate. The efficacy of nerve blocks is due to interruption of afferent nociceptive activity, which may be in addition to, or in combination with, blockade of afferent and efferent limbs of abnormal reflex activity involving sympathetic nerve fibers and skeletal muscle innervation. The pain relief frequently outlasts the known pharmacological d

=== 332: TEE — Advanced & Intraoperative Applications ===
  [Morgan & Mikhail p177]
  Section: Breathing Circulation Dolor (USABCD) and Prof. Erik Sloth. http://usabcd.org/node/35.). LV, left ventricle; RA, right atrium; RV, right ventricle. (Reproduced with permission from UltraSound Airway Breathing Circulation Dolor (USABCD) and Prof. Erik Sloth. http://usabcd.org/node/35.) • Unlike TTE, TEE is an invasive procedure with the potential for life-threatening complications (esophageal rupture and mediastinitis) (Figure 5–29). The close proximity of the esophagus to the left atrium eliminates the problem of obtaining “windows” to view the heart and permits great detail. TEE has been used frequently in the cardiac surgical operating room over the past decades. Its use to guide therapy in general cases has been limited by both the cost of the equipment and the learning necessary to correctly interpret the images. Both TTE and TEE generate two- dimensional images of the three-

  [Miller/Baby Miller p414]
  Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT Given these limitations, the IVC examination must be interpreted in the context of the entire clinical picture. The examination is most useful at extremes (e.g., very small, collapsing IVC) and when it can be repeated over time and after an intervention (such as fluid administra- tion). Integrating the IVC examination with additional ultrasound findings from the cardiac, lung, and abdomi- nal POCUS examinations is paramount. This practice will Box 21.2 Left Ventricular (LV) Function Assessment in Parasternal Short-Axis (PSAX) View: Two Questions to 1. Is the left ventricular chamber size (cavity) changing between systole and diastole? •In the PSAX view if papillary muscles touch each other and/or the LV cavity seems to disappear during systole, 

  [Morgan & Mikhail p2024]
  Section: Prevention. Drug syringes and ampules in the workspace should be restricted to those needed for the current patient to minimize errors in drug administration. Drugs should be consistently diluted to the same concentration in the same way for each use, and they should be clearly labeled. Computer systems for scanning bar-coded drug labels may help to reduce medication errors. The conduct of all anesthetics should follow a predictable pattern by which the anesthetist actively surveys the monitors, the surgical field, and the patient on a recurrent basis. In particular, patient positioning should be frequently reassessed to avoid the possibility of nerve compression or stretch injuries. Increasingly, protocols or algorithms, or both, are provided in anesthetizing locations to ensure compliance with preprocedural checklists, standardize responses to adverse events, and minimize erro

  [Miller/Baby Miller p409]
  Section: Chapter 21 Point-of-Care Ultrasound. Chapter 21 Point-of-Care Ultrasound The ultrasound machine must be set up properly before any examination. Once the appropriate transducer is selected, the user should then select the appropriate “examination type” or “examination mode.” The ultra- sound machine will send out and interpret sound waves differently in different examination modes. For instance, imaging the heart using a low-frequency probe pro- grammed for “abdominal examination” will yield a very difficult image to interpret. Appropriate depth should then be programmed so that the region of interest is cen- tered and as large as possible. Because ultrasound waves do not travel well through air, ultrasound gel is critical to obtaining quality images for interpretation. The ultra- sound gel acts as a conductive medium by preventing air space between the patient and the transducer

  [Morgan & Mikhail p173]
  Section: Therefore,. The amount of oxygen consumed by an individual (Vo2) equals the difference between arterial and venous (a–v) oxygen content (C) (Cao2 and Cvo2) multiplied by CO. Mixed venous and arterial oxygen content is easily determined if a PA catheter and an arterial line are in place. Oxygen consumption can also be calculated from the difference between the oxygen content in inspired and expired gas. Variations of the Fick principle are the basis of all indicator–dilution methods of determining CO. G. Echocardiography There are no more powerful tools to diagnose and assess cardiac function perioperatively than transthoracic (TTE) and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). Both TTE and TEE can be employed preoperatively and postoperatively. TTE has the advantage of being completely noninvasive; however, acquiring the “windows” to view the heart can be difficult. In the operati

  [Morgan & Mikhail p727]
  Section: 1. Assessment of valvular function—. FIGURE 22–4 Transesophageal echocardiogram at the lower esophageal/transgastric level looking up at the left ventricle at the level of the papillary muscles. 1. Assessment of valvular function— Valvular morphology can be assessed by multiplane and three-dimensional TEE. Pressure gradients, area and severity of stenosis, and severity of valvular regurgitation can be assessed by Doppler echocardiography and color-flow imaging (Figure 22–5). Colors are usually adjusted so that flow toward the probe is red and flow in the opposite direction is blue. TEE also can detect prosthetic valve dysfunction in the forms of obstruction, regurgitation, paravalvular leak, or vegetations from endocarditis. The TEE images in the upper mid-esophagus at 40° to 60° and 110° to 130° are useful for examining the aortic valve and ascending aorta (Figure 22–6). The di

  [Society Guideline: Guideline   ACC AHA 2023 Atrial Fibrillation p44]
  Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) was recommended to assess successful closure using an endorsed technique

  [Morgan & Mikhail p652]
  Section: C. Transesophageal Echocardiography. C. Transesophageal Echocardiography TEE is helpful in detecting global and regional cardiac dysfunction, as well as valvular function, in surgical patients. Moreover, detection of new regional wall motion abnormalities is a more sensitive and earlier indication of myocardial ischemia than the ECG. In animal studies in which coronary blood flow is gradually reduced, regional wall motion abnormalities develop before the ECG changes. Although the occurrence of new intraoperative abnormalities correlates with postoperative MIs in some studies, not all such abnormalities are necessarily ischemic. Both regional and global abnormalities can be caused by changes in heart rate, altered conduction, preload, afterload, or drug- induced changes in contractility. Decreased systolic wall thickening may be a more reliable index for ischemia than endocardial

  [Morgan & Mikhail p723]
  surgery. Two-dimensional, multiplane TEE can detect regional and global ventricular abnormalities, chamber dimensions, valvular anatomy, and the presence of intracardiac air. TEE can also be helpful in confirming cannulation of the coronary sinus for cardioplegia. Multiple views should be obtained from the upper esophagus, mid- esophagus, and transgastric positions in the transverse, sagittal, and in-between planes (Figure 22–2). The two views most commonly used for monitoring during cardiac surgery are the four-chamber view (Figure 22–3) and the transgastric (short-axis) view (Figure 22–4). Three-dimensional echocardiography offers better visualization of complex anatomic features, particularly of cardiac valves. The following represent the most important applications of intraoperative TEE.

  [Miller/Baby Miller p486]
  Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS introduction of these medical therapies should be decided based on risk estimation and clinical judgment.5 Despite the potential for adverse drug interactions, cardiac medications being taken preoperatively should, in general, be continued without interruption through the perioperative period. Holding angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor block- ers (ARBs) perioperatively may be considered because continuation has been associated with an increased inci- dence of intraoperative hypotension.12 In patients who do not require general anesthesia or who are undergoing lowto intermediate-risk procedures it is likely beneficial to continue all cardiac medications. Patients with recently placed intracoronary stents receiving platelet inhibitors have a high risk of 

=== 333: Transesophageal Echocardiography (TEE) — Basic Examination ===
  [Morgan & Mikhail p173]
  Section: Therefore,. The amount of oxygen consumed by an individual (Vo2) equals the difference between arterial and venous (a–v) oxygen content (C) (Cao2 and Cvo2) multiplied by CO. Mixed venous and arterial oxygen content is easily determined if a PA catheter and an arterial line are in place. Oxygen consumption can also be calculated from the difference between the oxygen content in inspired and expired gas. Variations of the Fick principle are the basis of all indicator–dilution methods of determining CO. G. Echocardiography There are no more powerful tools to diagnose and assess cardiac function perioperatively than transthoracic (TTE) and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). Both TTE and TEE can be employed preoperatively and postoperatively. TTE has the advantage of being completely noninvasive; however, acquiring the “windows” to view the heart can be difficult. In the operati

  [Morgan & Mikhail p727]
  Section: 1. Assessment of valvular function—. FIGURE 22–4 Transesophageal echocardiogram at the lower esophageal/transgastric level looking up at the left ventricle at the level of the papillary muscles. 1. Assessment of valvular function— Valvular morphology can be assessed by multiplane and three-dimensional TEE. Pressure gradients, area and severity of stenosis, and severity of valvular regurgitation can be assessed by Doppler echocardiography and color-flow imaging (Figure 22–5). Colors are usually adjusted so that flow toward the probe is red and flow in the opposite direction is blue. TEE also can detect prosthetic valve dysfunction in the forms of obstruction, regurgitation, paravalvular leak, or vegetations from endocarditis. The TEE images in the upper mid-esophagus at 40° to 60° and 110° to 130° are useful for examining the aortic valve and ascending aorta (Figure 22–6). The di

  [Morgan & Mikhail p188]
  Section: Schmidt C, Berggreen AE, Heringlake M. Perioperative hemodynamic monitoring: still. Cardiothorac Vasc Anesth. 2019;33:1742. Schmidt C, Berggreen AE, Heringlake M. Perioperative hemodynamic monitoring: still a place for cardiac filling pressures? Best Pract Res Clin Anaesthesiol. 2019;33:155. Shanewise J, Cheung A, Aronson S, et al. ASE/SCA guidelines for performing a comprehensive intraoperative multiplane transesophageal echocardiography examination: recommendations of the American Society of Echocardiography Council for Intraoperative Echocardiography and the Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists Task Force for Certification in Perioperative Transesophageal Echocardiography. Anesth Analg. 1999;89:870. Singer M. Oesophageal Doppler monitoring: should it be routine for high-risk surgical patients? Curr Opin Anesthesiol. 2011;24:171. Singh K, Mayo P. Critical care echocardi

  [Miller/Baby Miller p414]
  Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT Given these limitations, the IVC examination must be interpreted in the context of the entire clinical picture. The examination is most useful at extremes (e.g., very small, collapsing IVC) and when it can be repeated over time and after an intervention (such as fluid administra- tion). Integrating the IVC examination with additional ultrasound findings from the cardiac, lung, and abdomi- nal POCUS examinations is paramount. This practice will Box 21.2 Left Ventricular (LV) Function Assessment in Parasternal Short-Axis (PSAX) View: Two Questions to 1. Is the left ventricular chamber size (cavity) changing between systole and diastole? •In the PSAX view if papillary muscles touch each other and/or the LV cavity seems to disappear during systole, 

  [Miller/Baby Miller p409]
  Section: Chapter 21 Point-of-Care Ultrasound. Chapter 21 Point-of-Care Ultrasound The ultrasound machine must be set up properly before any examination. Once the appropriate transducer is selected, the user should then select the appropriate “examination type” or “examination mode.” The ultra- sound machine will send out and interpret sound waves differently in different examination modes. For instance, imaging the heart using a low-frequency probe pro- grammed for “abdominal examination” will yield a very difficult image to interpret. Appropriate depth should then be programmed so that the region of interest is cen- tered and as large as possible. Because ultrasound waves do not travel well through air, ultrasound gel is critical to obtaining quality images for interpretation. The ultra- sound gel acts as a conductive medium by preventing air space between the patient and the transducer

  [Morgan & Mikhail p179]
  abnormalities, in which the heart walls fail to thicken during systole or move in a dyskinetic fashion, can be associated with myocardial ischemia. FIGURE 5–31 The echo probe is manipulated by the examiner in multiple ways to create the standard images that constitute the comprehensive perioperative transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) examination. Never force the probe; if resistance is encountered, abandon the examination. Echocardiographic information can be provided by an intraoperative epicardial and epiaortic examination. Advancing the probe in the esophagus permits the upper, mid, and transgastric examinations (A). The probe can be turned in the esophagus from left to right to examine both leftand right-sided structures (A). Using the button located on the probe permits the echocardiographer to rotate the scan beam through 180°, thereby creating various two-dimensional imaging s

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1198]
  Section: The diagnostic criteria for POPH include a mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP). The diagnostic criteria for POPH include a mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) greater than 25 mm Hg at rest and a PVR greater than 240 dyn·s·cm–5. The transpulmonary gradient of greater than 12 mm Hg (mPAP minus pulmonary arteriolar occlusion pressure [PAOP]) reflects the obstruction to flow and distinguishes the contribution of volume and resistance to the increase in mPAP. POPH may be classified as mild (mPAP 25–35 mm Hg), moderate (mPAP >35 and <45 mm Hg), and severe (mPAP >45 mm Hg). Mild POPH is not associated with increased mortality at liver transplantation, though the immediate recovery period may be challenging if there is a significant increase in cardiac output after reperfusion of the new graft. Moderate and severe POPH are associated with significant mortality at transplantation. Ho

  [Morgan & Mikhail p180]
  Section: Echocardiography. Anesth Analg. 1999 Oct;89(4):870-884.). performing a comprehensive intraoperative multiplane transesophageal echocardiography examination; recommendations of the American Society of Echocardiography Council for Intraoperative Echocardiography and the Society for Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists Task Force for Certification in Perioperative Transesophageal Echocardiography. Anesth Analg. 1999 Oct;89(4):870-884.) FIGURE 5–32 Typical distributions of the right coronary artery (RCA), the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery, and the circumflex (Cx) coronary artery from transesophageal views of the left ventricle. The arterial distribution varies among patients. Some segments have variable coronary perfusion. (Adapted with permission from Lang RM, Bierig M, Devereux RB, et al. Recommendations for chamber quantification: a report from the American Society o

  [Miller/Baby Miller p713]
  Section: Chapter 38 Anesthesia for Procedures in Nonoperating Room Locations. IV Chapter 38 Anesthesia for Procedures in Nonoperating Room Locations irrigated fluid to avoid thrombus buildup. Because the amount of fluid can be substantial over a long procedure, patients with a history of heart failure may require a diu- retic to avoid excessive intravascular volume. Cardiac Implantable Electronic Devices Another common group of procedures performed in the EP suite is the placement of CIEDs, such as implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) and PMs. The anesthesia provider should understand the indication of the device, whether it is heart block, primary prevention for sudden cardiac death in cardiomyopathy, secondary prevention for a history of VT, or biventricular pacing for cardiac resynchronization therapy. Transcutaneous pacing and defibrillator devices should be attached to the

  [Morgan & Mikhail p177]
  Section: Breathing Circulation Dolor (USABCD) and Prof. Erik Sloth. http://usabcd.org/node/35.). LV, left ventricle; RA, right atrium; RV, right ventricle. (Reproduced with permission from UltraSound Airway Breathing Circulation Dolor (USABCD) and Prof. Erik Sloth. http://usabcd.org/node/35.) • Unlike TTE, TEE is an invasive procedure with the potential for life-threatening complications (esophageal rupture and mediastinitis) (Figure 5–29). The close proximity of the esophagus to the left atrium eliminates the problem of obtaining “windows” to view the heart and permits great detail. TEE has been used frequently in the cardiac surgical operating room over the past decades. Its use to guide therapy in general cases has been limited by both the cost of the equipment and the learning necessary to correctly interpret the images. Both TTE and TEE generate two- dimensional images of the three-

=== 334: Truncal blocks: intercostal and rectus sheath blocks ===
  [Morgan & Mikhail p1697]
  FIGURE 46–80 (A) Course of the intercostal nerves and the anterior cutaneous branches, local anesthetic is deposited deep to the rectus abdominis muscle to anesthetize the anterior cutaneous branches (B) Rectus sheath block. TF, transversalis fascia; arrow indicates local anesthetic target. With the patient supine, a linear ultrasound probe is placed over the midline of the abdomen in a transverse orientation. The hyperechoic linea alba is found at the midline between the rectus muscles on either side. Scanning laterally, the rectus abdominis muscle is seen as a spindle-shaped, hypoechoic muscle with hyperechoic fascia superficial and deep to the muscle, comprising the rectus sheath. The block needle should enter from the lateral side of the transducer, taking a shallow angle relative to the probe to avoid piercing too deep if the patient moves suddenly. The needle is advanced through th

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1684]
  Section: Intercostal Block. FIGURE 46–70 Truncal blocks for various indications. Intercostal Block Intercostal blocks provide analgesia following thoracic and upper abdominal surgery and relief of pain associated with rib fractures, herpes zoster, and cancer. These blocks require individual injections delivered at each of the intercostal nerves that innervate the dermatomes to be anesthetized. Intercostal blocks result in the highest blood levels of local anesthetic per local anesthetic dose injected of any nerve block procedure, and if multiple blocks will be performed, care must be taken to avoid toxic levels of local anesthetic. The intercostal block has one of the highest complication rates of any peripheral nerve block due to the close proximity of the intercostal artery and vein (intravascular local anesthetic injection) and the underlying pleura

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1683]
  Section: PERIPHERAL NERVE BLOCKS OF THE TRUNK. FIGURE 46–69 Ultrasound-guided deep cervical plexus block. PERIPHERAL NERVE BLOCKS OF THE TRUNK Neuraxial anesthesia is the gold standard for anesthesia and analgesia of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis. Neuraxial techniques anesthetize the chest, abdominal, and pelvic walls as well as the visceral organs contained within. However, epidural and spinal anesthesia techniques have many limitations. Neuraxial anesthetics cannot be administered to anticoagulated patients, nor can they be used to provide analgesia for outpatient surgeries. Further, these techniques are associated with risks of injury to the spinal cord or nerve roots, hematoma resulting in spinal cord or nerve root ischemia, profound hypotension, and epidural or meningeal infection. Given the limitations of neuraxial analgesia, numerous techniques have been devised to provide trunc

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1696]
  Section: Rectus Sheath Block. FIGURE 46–79 Transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block. Rectus Sheath Block The rectus sheath block is an ultrasound-guided abdominal field block targeting the anterior cutaneous branches of the seventh through the twelfth intercostal nerves as they pierce the rectus abdominis (Figure 46–80A). Local anesthetic is deposited deep to the rectus abdominis muscles bilaterally, producing an elliptical, midline block distribution extending from the xiphoid process to the symphysis pubis. Single-injection rectus sheath blocks will produce surgical anesthesia for superficial procedures in the midline abdominal wall (eg, umbilical hernia repair); however, no analgesia will be provided to visceral structures. Bilateral continuous rectus sheath blocks offer a less invasive alternative to thoracic epidural infusions for analgesia following midline laparotomy incisions.

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1472]
  Section: Many anesthetic agents have been used for caudal anesthesia in pediatric patients,. tachycardia helps exclude intravascular placement. Many anesthetic agents have been used for caudal anesthesia in pediatric patients, with 0.125% to 0.25% bupivacaine or 0.2% ropivacaine being the most common. Ropivacaine appears to have less cardiac toxicity than bupivacaine when compared milligram to milligram. The addition of epinephrine to caudal solutions tends to increase the degree of motor block. Clonidine, either by itself or combined with local anesthetics, has also been widely used. Morphine sulfate (25 mcg/kg) or hydromorphone (6 mcg/kg) may be added to the local anesthetic solution to prolong postoperative analgesia for inpatients, but it will increase the risk of delayed postoperative respiratory depression. The volume of local anesthetic required depends on the level of blockade de

  [Morgan & Mikhail p2314]
  Section: Peripheral nerve stimulation (PNS), 127–130, 1129. continuous, 1013–1015 field block technique, 1010 nerve stimulation technique, 1010–1011 paresthesia technique, 1010 ultrasound technique, 1011–1013 trunk erector spinae plane block, 1059–1060 intercostal block, 1055–1057, 1057f paravertebral block, 1057–1059, 1058f–1059f quadratus lumborum block, 1065–1067, 1066f–1067f rectus sheath block, 1064, 1065f serratus anterior plane block, 1061–1063, 1062f Peripheral nerve stimulation (PNS), 127–130, 1129 clinical considerations, 128–130 indications and contraindications, 127 techniques and complications, 127 Peripheral nerve stimulator, 221 Peripheral polyneuropathy, 1095 Perirectal abscess, 1352 Peritonitis, 1349t Peritubular capillaries, 658 Peritubular system, 664 Perivascular technique, 1046 Permissive hypercapnia, 571 Persistent postsurgical pain, 1139, 1139f Persistent pulmonary

  [Miller/Baby Miller p573]
  Section: Chapter 31 Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology. Chapter 31 Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology have multiple comorbid conditions. Preoperative evalua- tion is vital, but routine laboratory testing is not appro- priate. For cataract surgery, in particular, routine testing is associated with a significant increase in health care spending.3 Physician assessment and judgment determine the need for indicated laboratory testing.4 Cessation of antiplatelet/anticoagulant drugs before eye surgery is controversial.5 The risk of intraocular bleeding versus the risk of perioperative stroke, myocardial ischemia, and deep venous thrombosis must be assessed.6 One of the most important preoperative assessments is the likelihood of patient movement during surgery. Inability to remain supine and relatively still during intraocular surgery with MAC may result in eye injury and have devastating long-term

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1834]
  blunts the neuroendocrine stress response associated with surgery, decreases postoperative morbidity, attenuates catabolism, and accelerates postoperative functional recovery. Compared with systemic opioid analgesia, thoracic epidural analgesia provides better static and dynamic pain relief. However, these benefits have mainly been observed in patients undergoing open abdominal and thoracic surgery; its usefulness in patients undergoing minimally invasive abdominal and thoracic surgery is questionable, as recent trials have suggested it may actually prolong in-hospital recovery in such cases. Long-acting local anesthetics such as ropivacaine (0.2%), bupivacaine (0.0625–0.125%), and levobupivacaine (0.1–0.125%) are commonly administered together with lipophilic opioids by continuous epidural infusion or by patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA). As previously noted, administering lo

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1797]
  Section: Cryoneurolysis may produce temporary analgesia (cryoanalgesia) for weeks to. controlled (60–90°C for 1–3 min) to ablate the nerve without causing excessive collateral tissue damage. RFA is commonly used for trigeminal rhizotomy and medial branch (facet) rhizotomy. It has also been used for dorsal root rhizotomy and lumbar sympathectomy, and it may be effective for medial branches of the spinal nerves that innervate facet joints. Pain relief is usually limited to 3 to 12 months due to nerve regeneration after RFA. The lesion from thermal RFA is typically ovoid in shape and dependent upon factors such as the gauge of the needle, the temperature of the needle tip, and the duration of the heating procedure. Cooling the RFA needle with a sterile water system may decrease the charring associated with thermal lesioning and extend the spread of the lesion while heating at lower temperat

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1685]
  (pneumothorax). In addition, duration is impressively short due to the high vascular flow and the high rate of local anesthetic uptake and removal from the local tissues, and placement of a perineural catheter is tenuous, at best. With the advent of ultrasound guidance and fascial plane blocks for thoracoabdominal analgesia, intercostal nerve blocks have largely been replaced by other blocks requiring only a single injection to cover a large area of the chest wall. The intercostal nerves arise from the dorsal and ventral rami of the thoracic spinal nerves. They exit from the spine at the intervertebral foramen and enter a groove on the underside of the corresponding rib, running with the intercostal artery and vein. The nerve is generally the most inferior structure in the neurovascular bundle between the internal and innermost intercostal muscles (Figure 46–71). Each nerve provides sens

=== 335: Truncal blocks: pectoral and serratus plane blocks ===
  [Morgan & Mikhail p1690]
  Section: Pecs I/II Block. spinae over several spinal levels above and below the injection level. As this is a fascial plane block and the goal is to cover many dermatomes with a single injection, a large volume (30–50 mL) is used. Pecs I/II Block The pectoralis nerve or Pecs block is another less invasive alternative to paravertebral block for surgery involving the chest wall. The Pecs I block was first described in 2011 as a fascia plane block targeting the medial and lateral pectoral nerves in the plane between the pectoralis major and minor muscles, hence the name pectoralis nerve block. The block is achieved by depositing local anesthetic in the plane between the pectoralis major and pectoralis minor muscles at the level of the third rib. The following year, the Pecs II or modified Pecs block was described targeting the intercostobrachial, the third through sixth intercostals, and th

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1691]
  Section: Serratus Anterior Plane Block. FIGURE 46–76 (A) Patient and ultrasound transducer positioning for pectoralis nerve block (PECS II) and (B) PECS II imaging: arrows indicate local anesthetic targets. Serratus Anterior Plane Block The serratus anterior plane (SAP) block is a further modification of the pectoralis nerve block, moving the injection target for local anesthetic proximally to the plane between the serratus anterior and latissimus dorsi muscles. This is the approximate location where the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves pierce the serratus anterior muscle, and the block aims to anesthetize the hemithorax via these branches. Similar to the ESP and Pecs blocks, the SAP block is a more superficial alternative to the paravertebral block for unilateral chest wall anesthesia/analgesia. However, further studies are needed to compare these novel chest wall bl

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1683]
  Section: PERIPHERAL NERVE BLOCKS OF THE TRUNK. FIGURE 46–69 Ultrasound-guided deep cervical plexus block. PERIPHERAL NERVE BLOCKS OF THE TRUNK Neuraxial anesthesia is the gold standard for anesthesia and analgesia of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis. Neuraxial techniques anesthetize the chest, abdominal, and pelvic walls as well as the visceral organs contained within. However, epidural and spinal anesthesia techniques have many limitations. Neuraxial anesthetics cannot be administered to anticoagulated patients, nor can they be used to provide analgesia for outpatient surgeries. Further, these techniques are associated with risks of injury to the spinal cord or nerve roots, hematoma resulting in spinal cord or nerve root ischemia, profound hypotension, and epidural or meningeal infection. Given the limitations of neuraxial analgesia, numerous techniques have been devised to provide trunc

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1691]
  Similar to the ESP and Pecs blocks, the SAP block is a more superficial alternative to the paravertebral block for unilateral chest wall anesthesia/analgesia

  [Miller/Baby Miller p349]
  Section: Chapter 18 Peripheral Nerve Blocks. Chapter 18 Peripheral Nerve Blocks The needle approaches in plane from cephalad to cau- dad (lateral to medial) for an infraclavicular block. After a skin wheal of local anesthetic is placed, the needle is directed toward the space between the lateral cord and the axillary artery. The goal of the infraclavicular block is to spread the local anesthetic around the axillary artery in a U-shape, as this will assure blockade of all three wall-hugging cords of the brachial plexus. The advantages of the infraclavicular block are the close proximity of the brachial plexus to the artery, relatively consistent anatomy, and a stable site for place- ment of a continuous peripheral nerve catheter. Because of the close proximity to the clavicle and the depth of the block, performing this block can be challenging in some patients. Axillary Block The axillary

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1620]
  These blocks rely on depositing a large volume of local anesthetic into fascial planes in which target nerves are contained. Fascial plane blocks have advantages and disadvantages compared with their respective conventional nerve block alternatives. Often, multiple nerves or dermatomes can be anesthetized by a single injection to a fascial plane that would require multiple injections to cover individual nerves or dermatomes using conventional nerve blocks. Fascial plane blocks are also generally more superficial than conventional nerve or epidural blocks. Both of these factors contribute to the potentially increased safety of fascial plane blocks. However, since fascial plane blocks usually require a large volume, the concentration of local anesthetic is generally decreased, reducing the likelihood that the block will provide surgical anesthesia. Further, since fascial plane blocks do no

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1471]
  Section: One popular fluid administration guideline is 0 to 2 mL/kg/h for relatively. accompany rapid blood transfusion. Dosing of packed red blood cell transfusions is discussed in Chapter 51. Platelets and fresh frozen plasma, 10 to 15 mL/kg, should be given when blood loss exceeds one to two blood volumes. Recent practice, particularly with blood loss from trauma, favors “earlier” administration of plasma and platelets as part of a massive transfusion protocol. One unit of platelets per 10 kg weight raises the platelet count by about 50,000/μL. The pediatric dose of cryoprecipitate is 1 unit/10 kg weight. 2. “Third-space” loss—These losses are impossible to measure and must be estimated by the extent of the surgical procedure. In recent years, some investigators have questioned the very existence of the third space, and some have asserted that the third space exists as a consequence o

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1685]
  (pneumothorax). In addition, duration is impressively short due to the high vascular flow and the high rate of local anesthetic uptake and removal from the local tissues, and placement of a perineural catheter is tenuous, at best. With the advent of ultrasound guidance and fascial plane blocks for thoracoabdominal analgesia, intercostal nerve blocks have largely been replaced by other blocks requiring only a single injection to cover a large area of the chest wall. The intercostal nerves arise from the dorsal and ventral rami of the thoracic spinal nerves. They exit from the spine at the intervertebral foramen and enter a groove on the underside of the corresponding rib, running with the intercostal artery and vein. The nerve is generally the most inferior structure in the neurovascular bundle between the internal and innermost intercostal muscles (Figure 46–71). Each nerve provides sens

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1689]
  Section: Erector Spinae Plane Block. FIGURE 46–75 Paravertebral block using transverse ultrasound-guided technique. Asterisk indicates local anesthetic target. Erector Spinae Plane Block The erector spinae plane (ESP) block is emerging as a useful alternative to paravertebral block for surgery involving the thoracoabdominal wall, and it can provide analgesia for rib fractures. It was first described as an analgesic therapy for chest wall neuropathic pain in 2016, and its popularity has increased dramatically over the subsequent years. The underlying mechanism for this fascial plane block has not been fully elucidated; however, it may be that local anesthetic diffuses to the paravertebral space. Although randomized trials have found the ESP block to provide inferior analgesia compared with the paravertebral block, the simplicity of the technique may make this a preferable option for chest

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1692]
  resting behind the head. A linear ultrasound transducer is placed on the chest in sagittal orientation, and the ribs are counted down to the level of the fourth or fifth rib (Figure 46–77A). Maintaining these ribs in cross-section, the anesthesia provider moves the probe laterally to the midaxillary line, eventually producing a nearly coronal orientation of the ultrasound probe. The serratus anterior muscle is identified directly superficial to the ribs in the midaxillary position, and the latissimus dorsi muscle is identified superficial to the serratus at this location. The block needle is inserted on the superomedial side of the probe and directed inferolaterally toward the plane between the latissimus dorsi (superficial) and serratus anterior (deep) muscles (Figure 46–77B). Local anesthetic is injected to hydrodissect this plane, and 20 to 30 mL can be deposited. Even in obese indivi

=== 336: Truncal blocks: quadratus lumborum (QL) blocks ===
  [Morgan & Mikhail p1700]
  Section: B. Type 2 Quadratus Lumborum Block. muscle deep to the posterior aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis muscle. The patient is positioned supine or lateral with a linear or large curvilinear ultrasound probe in transverse orientation placed in the midaxillary line. The block needle is inserted anterolateral to the transducer and advanced to puncture through the posterior aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis muscle and inject local anesthetic (20–30 mL) on the lateral aspect of the quadratus lumborum muscle. B. Type 2 Quadratus Lumborum Block The Type 2 quadratus lumborum block (QL2), also referred to as the posterior quadratus lumborum block, targets local anesthetic to the posterior aspect of the quadratus lumborum muscle, between this muscle and the overlying erector spinae muscle group. With the patient in the lateral decubitus position, a linear or curvilinear ultrasou

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1698]
  Quadratus Lumborum Blocks The quadratus lumborum (QL) blocks are a recently described group of blocks targeting local anesthetic to various surfaces of the quadratus lumborum muscle (Figure 46–81A) to anesthetize the lower thoracic and lumbar regions

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1698]
  Section: Quadratus Lumborum Blocks. Quadratus Lumborum Blocks The quadratus lumborum (QL) blocks are a recently described group of blocks targeting local anesthetic to various surfaces of the quadratus lumborum muscle (Figure 46–81A) to anesthetize the lower thoracic and lumbar regions. Three distinct blocks have been described, targeting the lateral surface (type 1), posterior surface (type 2), and anterior aspect between the quadratus and psoas muscles (transmuscular). As of the time of the writing of this chapter, there are little clinical data comparing the three techniques. The vast majority of publications related to the various QL blocks at this time are in the form of case series or cadaver studies, but clinical trials have demonstrated benefit following cesarean section and laparoscopic gynecologic surgery. Differing mechanisms of action have been proposed for each of the techni

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1778]
  Section: Thoracic Paravertebral Nerve Block. injection of particulate steroid with this block. Particulate steroid must not be used with cervical paravertebral nerve blocks because of possible anomalous vertebral artery anatomy in this region. Thoracic Paravertebral Nerve Block This technique may be used to block the upper thoracic dermatome segments because the scapula interferes with the intercostal technique at these levels. Unlike an intercostal nerve block, a thoracic paravertebral nerve block anesthetizes both the dorsal and ventral rami of spinal nerves. It is therefore useful in patients with pain originating from the thoracic spine, thoracic cage, or abdominal wall, including compression fractures, proximal rib fractures, and acute herpes zoster (shingles). This block is also frequently utilized for intraoperative anesthesia and for postoperative pain management in breast surger

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1698]
  Three distinct blocks have been described, targeting the lateral surface (type 1), posterior surface (type 2), and anterior aspect between the quadratus and psoas muscles (transmuscular)

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1698]
  The vast majority of publications related to the various QL blocks at this time are in the form of case series or cadaver studies, but clinical trials have demonstrated benefit following cesarean section and laparoscopic gynecologic

  [Morgan & Mikhail p2342]
  Section: Trigeminal neuralgia, 1098. gasserian ganglion block, 1109, 1110f, 1111 illustration of, 1110f indications, 1109, 1111 mandibular nerve, 1109, 1111, 1111f maxillary nerve, 1109, 1111f ophthalmic nerve, 1109 Trigeminal neuralgia, 1098 Trigger points, 1087 Triiodothyronine (T3), 726, 763 Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, 910t “Triple H” therapy, 616 Triple response of Lewis, 1081 Trismus. See Masseter muscle rigidity Tromethamine, 449, 1202, 1205 Tropomyosin, 353f Troponin, 350 Trousseau sign, 767, 1184 True negatives, 300t True positives, 300t Truncus arteriosus, 434 Trunk, peripheral nerve blocks of intercostal block, 1055–1057 paravertebral block, 1057–1059 pecs block, 1060–1061, 1061f superficial cervical plexus block, 1053 transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block, 1063f–1064f, 1063–1064 T-type calcium channels, 351 Tubeless lithotripsy unit, 705f Tubeless video-assisted thoracic 

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1700]
  Peripheral Nerve Blocks and Anatomy for Ultrasound-Guided Regional Anesthesia

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1698]
  As of the time of the writing of this chapter, there are little clinical data comparing the three techniques

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1698]
  Differing mechanisms of action have been proposed for each of the techniques based on evidence from cadaveric studies; however, discussion of each of these mechanisms is beyond the scope of this chapter

=== 337: Truncal blocks: thoracic paravertebral block ===
  [Morgan & Mikhail p1683]
  Section: PERIPHERAL NERVE BLOCKS OF THE TRUNK. FIGURE 46–69 Ultrasound-guided deep cervical plexus block. PERIPHERAL NERVE BLOCKS OF THE TRUNK Neuraxial anesthesia is the gold standard for anesthesia and analgesia of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis. Neuraxial techniques anesthetize the chest, abdominal, and pelvic walls as well as the visceral organs contained within. However, epidural and spinal anesthesia techniques have many limitations. Neuraxial anesthetics cannot be administered to anticoagulated patients, nor can they be used to provide analgesia for outpatient surgeries. Further, these techniques are associated with risks of injury to the spinal cord or nerve roots, hematoma resulting in spinal cord or nerve root ischemia, profound hypotension, and epidural or meningeal infection. Given the limitations of neuraxial analgesia, numerous techniques have been devised to provide trunc

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1778]
  Section: Thoracic Paravertebral Nerve Block. injection of particulate steroid with this block. Particulate steroid must not be used with cervical paravertebral nerve blocks because of possible anomalous vertebral artery anatomy in this region. Thoracic Paravertebral Nerve Block This technique may be used to block the upper thoracic dermatome segments because the scapula interferes with the intercostal technique at these levels. Unlike an intercostal nerve block, a thoracic paravertebral nerve block anesthetizes both the dorsal and ventral rami of spinal nerves. It is therefore useful in patients with pain originating from the thoracic spine, thoracic cage, or abdominal wall, including compression fractures, proximal rib fractures, and acute herpes zoster (shingles). This block is also frequently utilized for intraoperative anesthesia and for postoperative pain management in breast surger

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1686]
  Section: Paravertebral Block. redirecting a long block needle (Figure 46–72). FIGURE 46–72 Ultrasound-guided intercostal nerve block. Paravertebral Block Paravertebral blocks provide surgical anesthesia or postoperative analgesia for procedures involving the thoracic or abdominal wall, mastectomy, inguinal or abdominal hernia repair, and more invasive unilateral abdominal procedures such as open nephrectomy or cholecystectomy. Paravertebral blocks usually cover one to two dermatomes above and below the level of the injection. Therefore, multiple injections delivered at various vertebral levels may be required depending on the area of body wall to be anesthetized. For example, a simple mastectomy would require coverage of dermatomes T2 to T6, and paravertebral blocks at the T3 and T5 levels should provide coverage. For axillary node dissection, an additional injection at T2 should be perf

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1785]
  Section: 3. Sympathetic Nerve Blocks. 3. Sympathetic Nerve Blocks Sympathetic blockade can be accomplished by a variety of techniques, including intrathecal, epidural, and paravertebral blocks. Unfortunately, these approaches usually block both somatic and sympathetic fibers. Problems with differential spinal and epidural techniques are discussed later in this section. The following techniques specifically block sympathetic fibers and can be used to define the role of the sympathetic system in a patient’s pain and possibly also provide long-term pain relief. The most common indications for sympathetic nerve blocks include reflex sympathetic dystrophy, visceral pain, acute herpetic neuralgia, postherpetic pain, and peripheral vascular disease. Isolated sympathetic blockade to a region is characterized by loss of sympathetic tone, as evidenced by increased cutaneous blood flow and cutaneou

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1834]
  blunts the neuroendocrine stress response associated with surgery, decreases postoperative morbidity, attenuates catabolism, and accelerates postoperative functional recovery. Compared with systemic opioid analgesia, thoracic epidural analgesia provides better static and dynamic pain relief. However, these benefits have mainly been observed in patients undergoing open abdominal and thoracic surgery; its usefulness in patients undergoing minimally invasive abdominal and thoracic surgery is questionable, as recent trials have suggested it may actually prolong in-hospital recovery in such cases. Long-acting local anesthetics such as ropivacaine (0.2%), bupivacaine (0.0625–0.125%), and levobupivacaine (0.1–0.125%) are commonly administered together with lipophilic opioids by continuous epidural infusion or by patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA). As previously noted, administering lo

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1689]
  Section: Erector Spinae Plane Block. FIGURE 46–75 Paravertebral block using transverse ultrasound-guided technique. Asterisk indicates local anesthetic target. Erector Spinae Plane Block The erector spinae plane (ESP) block is emerging as a useful alternative to paravertebral block for surgery involving the thoracoabdominal wall, and it can provide analgesia for rib fractures. It was first described as an analgesic therapy for chest wall neuropathic pain in 2016, and its popularity has increased dramatically over the subsequent years. The underlying mechanism for this fascial plane block has not been fully elucidated; however, it may be that local anesthetic diffuses to the paravertebral space. Although randomized trials have found the ESP block to provide inferior analgesia compared with the paravertebral block, the simplicity of the technique may make this a preferable option for chest

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1684]
  Section: Intercostal Block. FIGURE 46–70 Truncal blocks for various indications. Intercostal Block Intercostal blocks provide analgesia following thoracic and upper abdominal surgery and relief of pain associated with rib fractures, herpes zoster, and cancer. These blocks require individual injections delivered at each of the intercostal nerves that innervate the dermatomes to be anesthetized. Intercostal blocks result in the highest blood levels of local anesthetic per local anesthetic dose injected of any nerve block procedure, and if multiple blocks will be performed, care must be taken to avoid toxic levels of local anesthetic. The intercostal block has one of the highest complication rates of any peripheral nerve block due to the close proximity of the intercostal artery and vein (intravascular local anesthetic injection) and the underlying pleura

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1799]
  Section: 7. Differential Neural Blockade. block, it may be more practical to obtain consent for a neurolytic procedure in advance and to follow the diagnostic block immediately with chemical neurolysis if the diagnostic procedure has resulted in pain relief. 7. Differential Neural Blockade Pharmacological or anatomic differential neural blockade has been advocated as a method of distinguishing somatic, sympathetic, and psychogenic pain mechanisms. The procedure is controversial owing to the challenges of interpreting the data and the inability to define exactly which nerve fibers or pathways are blocked, and it is rarely used. Theoretically, the pharmacological approach relies on the differential sensitivity of nerve fibers to local anesthetics. Preganglionic sympathetic (B) fibers are reported to be most sensitive, closely followed by pain (Aδ) fibers, somatosensory (Aβ) fibers, motor f

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1686]
  Paravertebral Block Paravertebral blocks provide surgical anesthesia or postoperative analgesia for procedures involving the thoracic or abdominal wall, mastectomy, inguinal or abdominal hernia repair, and more invasive unilateral abdominal procedures such as open nephrectomy or cholecystectomy

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1778]
  For diagnostic blocks, only 2 mL of local anesthetic is injected at any one level because larger volumes may block more than one level

=== 338: Truncal blocks: transversus abdominis plane (TAP) blocks ===
  [Morgan & Mikhail p1694]
  Section: The subcostal (T12), ilioinguinal (L1), and iliohypogastric (L1) nerves are. with or without bowel perforation, and the use of ultrasound is highly recommended to minimize this risk. The subcostal (T12), ilioinguinal (L1), and iliohypogastric (L1) nerves are targeted in the TAP block, providing anesthesia to the ipsilateral lower abdomen below the umbilicus (Figure 46–78). For part of their course, these three nerves travel in the muscle plane between the internal oblique and transversus abdominis muscles. Needle placement should be between the two fascial layers of these muscles, with local anesthetic filling the transversus abdominis plane. The patient is ideally positioned in lateral decubitus, but if mobility is limited, the block may be performed in the supine position. With a linear (or curvilinear for very obese patients) array transducer oriented parallel to the inguinal

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1471]
  Blocks range in complexity from relatively simple peripheral nerve blocks (eg, penile block, ilioinguinal block); to brachial plexus, sciatic nerve, femoral nerve, and transversus abdominis plane (TAP) blocks; to major conduction blocks (eg, spinal or epidural

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1471]
  Section: One popular fluid administration guideline is 0 to 2 mL/kg/h for relatively. accompany rapid blood transfusion. Dosing of packed red blood cell transfusions is discussed in Chapter 51. Platelets and fresh frozen plasma, 10 to 15 mL/kg, should be given when blood loss exceeds one to two blood volumes. Recent practice, particularly with blood loss from trauma, favors “earlier” administration of plasma and platelets as part of a massive transfusion protocol. One unit of platelets per 10 kg weight raises the platelet count by about 50,000/μL. The pediatric dose of cryoprecipitate is 1 unit/10 kg weight. 2. “Third-space” loss—These losses are impossible to measure and must be estimated by the extent of the surgical procedure. In recent years, some investigators have questioned the very existence of the third space, and some have asserted that the third space exists as a consequence o

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1203]
  Transversus abdominis plane (TAP) blocks may be very effective (see Chapter 46)

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1696]
  Section: Rectus Sheath Block. FIGURE 46–79 Transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block. Rectus Sheath Block The rectus sheath block is an ultrasound-guided abdominal field block targeting the anterior cutaneous branches of the seventh through the twelfth intercostal nerves as they pierce the rectus abdominis (Figure 46–80A). Local anesthetic is deposited deep to the rectus abdominis muscles bilaterally, producing an elliptical, midline block distribution extending from the xiphoid process to the symphysis pubis. Single-injection rectus sheath blocks will produce surgical anesthesia for superficial procedures in the midline abdominal wall (eg, umbilical hernia repair); however, no analgesia will be provided to visceral structures. Bilateral continuous rectus sheath blocks offer a less invasive alternative to thoracic epidural infusions for analgesia following midline laparotomy incisions.

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1472]
  Unilateral transversus abdominis plane (TAP) blocks are commonly used to provide analgesia after hernia repair

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1472]
  Section: Many anesthetic agents have been used for caudal anesthesia in pediatric patients,. tachycardia helps exclude intravascular placement. Many anesthetic agents have been used for caudal anesthesia in pediatric patients, with 0.125% to 0.25% bupivacaine or 0.2% ropivacaine being the most common. Ropivacaine appears to have less cardiac toxicity than bupivacaine when compared milligram to milligram. The addition of epinephrine to caudal solutions tends to increase the degree of motor block. Clonidine, either by itself or combined with local anesthetics, has also been widely used. Morphine sulfate (25 mcg/kg) or hydromorphone (6 mcg/kg) may be added to the local anesthetic solution to prolong postoperative analgesia for inpatients, but it will increase the risk of delayed postoperative respiratory depression. The volume of local anesthetic required depends on the level of blockade de

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1203]
  Section: Hypotensive anesthesia should be avoided because of its potentially deleterious. Doppler or TEE probe in a patient with esophageal variceal disease. Hypotensive anesthesia should be avoided because of its potentially deleterious effects on liver function. Administration of antifibrinolytics, such as ε-aminocaproic acid or tranexamic acid, may reduce operative blood loss, especially if fibrinolysis can be demonstrated by viscoelastic coagulation monitoring. Hypoglycemia, coagulopathy, and sepsis may occur following large liver resections. Drainage of an abscess or cyst may be complicated by peritoneal contamination. In the case of a hydatid cyst, spillage can cause anaphylaxis due to the release of Echinococcus antigens. Postoperative complications include hepatic dysfunction, sepsis, and blood loss secondary to coagulopathy or surgical bleeding. Postoperative pain from the surgi

  [Morgan & Mikhail p2342]
  Section: Trigeminal neuralgia, 1098. gasserian ganglion block, 1109, 1110f, 1111 illustration of, 1110f indications, 1109, 1111 mandibular nerve, 1109, 1111, 1111f maxillary nerve, 1109, 1111f ophthalmic nerve, 1109 Trigeminal neuralgia, 1098 Trigger points, 1087 Triiodothyronine (T3), 726, 763 Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, 910t “Triple H” therapy, 616 Triple response of Lewis, 1081 Trismus. See Masseter muscle rigidity Tromethamine, 449, 1202, 1205 Tropomyosin, 353f Troponin, 350 Trousseau sign, 767, 1184 True negatives, 300t True positives, 300t Truncus arteriosus, 434 Trunk, peripheral nerve blocks of intercostal block, 1055–1057 paravertebral block, 1057–1059 pecs block, 1060–1061, 1061f superficial cervical plexus block, 1053 transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block, 1063f–1064f, 1063–1064 T-type calcium channels, 351 Tubeless lithotripsy unit, 705f Tubeless video-assisted thoracic 

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1693]
  Transversus Abdominis Plane Block The transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block is most often used to provide surgical anesthesia for minor, superficial procedures on the lower abdominal wall or postoperative analgesia for procedures below the umbilicus

=== 339: Ultrasound fundamentals for regional anesthesia ===
  [Stanford CA-1 p97]
  Section: Subspecialty Anesthesia:. Subspecialty Anesthesia: Basic Sciences – Primary modality for majority of peripheral nerve localization May be combined with other techniques PRN – High frequency sounds waves 1-20MHz – Hypoechoic: structures which sound waves pass through easily (appear dark) – Hyperechoic: structures which reflect sound waves (appear white) – Higher frequency transducer= high-res picture, poor tissue penetration (better for superficial nerves) Nerve Stimulation – Insulated needle concentrates electrical current at tip – Poor evidence to support, but classically: <0.2mA current with muscle contraction = intraneural needle location <0.5mA current with muscle contraction = proximity to motor nerve Field Block – Targets terminal cutaneous nerves Ex: intercostobrachial nerve block, superficial cervical plexus block, ankle block Brachial Plexus Anatomy Brachial Plexus: Uni

  [Miller/Baby Miller p180]
  Section: Section II PHARMACOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Section II PHARMACOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY local anesthesia, which involves subcutaneous infusion of large volumes of very dilute local anesthetic. The total lidocaine doses used in this approach are very large, such as eightfold larger than recommended doses for infiltra- tion or peripheral nerve blockade. Nevertheless, there is a pharmacokinetic basis for this approach. When recom- mended dose guidelines and techniques are followed, plasma lidocaine concentrations remain in a safe range, though plasma concentrations commonly peak more than 12 hours after injection.30 Several case series support the general safety of this approach when recommended guidelines are followed. Conversely, adverse events have occurred when guidelines were not followed. In par- ticular, additional dosing of other local anesthetics over the next day has resulted in t

  [Miller/Baby Miller p340]
  Section: Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT. Section III PREOPERATIVE PREPARATION AND INTRAOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT 39. Casati A, Fanelli G, Cappelleri G, etal. Effects of spinal needle type on lateral distribution of 0.5% hyperbaric bupiv- acaine. Anesth Analg. 1998;87:355–359. 40. Sanderson P, Read J, Littlewood DG, etal. Interaction between baricity (glu- cose concentration) and other factors influencing intrathecal drug spread. Br J Anaesth. 1994;73:744–746. 41. Malinovsky JM, Renaud G, Le Corre P, etal. Intrathecal bupivacaine in humans: Influence of volume and baricity of solu- tions. Anesthesiology. 1999;91:1260– 1266. 42. Goldblum E, Atchabahian A. The use of 2-chloroprocaine for spinal anaesthesia. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2013;57:545–552. 43. Zaric D, Pace NL. Transient neurologic symptoms (TNS) following spinal anaes- thesia with lidocaine versus

  [Miller/Baby Miller p754]
  Section: Section V THE RECOVERY PERIOD. Section V THE RECOVERY PERIOD for acute postoperative pain manage- ment: A meta-analysis. Anesth Analg. 2005;100:757–773. 27. Chidambaran V, Ashton M, Martin LJ, Jegga AG. Systems biology-based approaches to summarize and iden- tify novel genes and pathways associ- ated with acute and chronic postsurgical pain. J Clin Anesth. 2020;62:109738. 28. Beverly A, Kaye AD, Ljungqvist O, Urman RD. Essential elements of multi- modal analgesia in Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) guidelines. Anes- thesiol Clin. 2017;35:e115–e143. 29. Gelman D, Gelmanas A, Urbanaitė D, etal. Role of multimodal analgesia in the evolving Enhanced Recovery After Surgery pathways. Medicina (Kaunas). 2018;54:20. 30. Pogatzki-Zahn EM, Zahn PK. From preemptive to preventive analgesia. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol. 2006;19:551–555. 31. Kehlet H. Multimodal approach to control postoper

  [Miller/Baby Miller p648]
  Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS some circumstances children are allowed to regain their airway reflexes and are extubated “awake.” However, extubation during deep anesthesia and emergence without an endotracheal tube in place is a common practice in pediatric anesthesia. Advantages to wait- ing to extubate the trachea until the patient is awake include the ability to protect against aspiration of stomach contents or blood/secretions from the airway, and the relative safety of passing through stage 2 with an endotracheal tube in place. Advantages of extuba- tion during deep anesthesia include no coughing or straining against suture lines or incisions and removal of the endotracheal tube before it leads to airway reac- tivity, both of which lead to a smoother emergence. The child then emerges in the operating room or in th

  [Miller/Baby Miller p343]
  Section: Chapter 18 Peripheral Nerve Blocks. Chapter 18 Peripheral Nerve Blocks rate of systemic absorption, epinephrine can reduce peak plasma levels of local anesthetic. Practitioners may also add perineural steroids (e.g., preservative-free dexametha- sone) to local anesthetics to prolong regional blocks.1 Con- siderations for the choice of local anesthetic solution for intravenous regional anesthesia are different from those for peripheral nerve blocks (see the later discussion under “Intravenous Regional Anesthesia [Bier Block]”). Regional Block Checklist A standardized regional block checklist should be reviewed before performing a peripheral nerve block to improve safety.2 3 The checklist should include surgical consent, site marking, allergies, anticoagulation status, proposed peripheral nerve block, local anesthetic dose, side of the block, monitors implemented, emergency equipm

  [Miller/Baby Miller p924]
  Section: Index. in epidural anesthesia, 307 for spinal anesthesia, 301 Hydrophilic opioids, for spinal anesthesia, 301 Hydrostatic driving forces, 57 Hydrostatic pressure, 437 Hydrostatic pulmonary edema, 57 Hydroxyethyl starches, 441 Hyperaldosteronism, 526 Hyperalgesia, 720 Hyperbaric solution, 297 Hypercapnia, 62 Hypercapnic respiratory failure, 743 Hypercapnic ventilatory response (HCVR), 66, 66f Hyperdynamic circulation, 508 Hyperglycemia, 207, 522–523, 529 Hyperkalemia, 662 NMBDs and, 167 Hyperoxia, anesthetic neurotoxicity and, 190 Hypertension, 202b, 202 occurrence in pheochromocytoma/ paraganglioma, 527 Hypertensive disorders, of pregnancy, Hyperthyroidism, 524 anesthesia goal, 525 perioperative considerations, 525 Hypertonic saline, 439–440 Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), 469, 470b management of anesthesia, 470 Hypnotics, analgesics and, 42–43 Hypobaric solution, 297 Hypocal

  [Miller/Baby Miller p663]
  Section: Chapter 34 Pediatrics. Chapter 34 Pediatrics SGA, or full general endotracheal anesthesia. Fre- quently used anesthetics include propofol, ketamine, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, and opioids. The cen- tral alpha-2 agonist dexmedetomidine is increasingly being used for nonpainful diagnostic studies such as MRI.61 The same standards for preoperative evalua- tion, monitoring, and recovery must be maintained for anesthesia in remote locations to ensure safety in this environment.62 Ex Utero Intrapartum Therapy Procedure and Fetal Surgery The EXIT procedure was first performed in 1989. The purpose is to secure the neonatal airway while the fetus is still being oxygenated via the placenta. The mother is placed under general anesthesia, a hysterotomy is made, and the fetus is partially delivered. This strategy can be used to oxygenate the fetus while the airway is secured by direct la

  [Miller/Baby Miller p30]
  Section: Section I INTRODUCTION. Section I INTRODUCTION requirements for delivery of care, scope of practice, and supervision, and some states have allowed CRNAs independent practice, most states currently require nonphysician anesthesia providers to be supervised by a physician. Those states that license AAs require that they be directly supervised by a physician. Dental anesthesia is provided by a physician anesthesiologist or a dentist who has received specialty training in anesthesia care. A 2017 global survey reported that the United States had 67,000 physician anesthesiologists, 49,000 nurse anesthesia providers, and 1960 nonphy- sician/nonnurse providers.4 The “care team” model that includes CRNAs and physician anesthesiologists is the most common prac- tice model in most states. For most U.S. anesthesia groups, the working relationship between physician anesthesiologists and CRNA

  [Miller/Baby Miller p359]
  Section: Chapter 18 Peripheral Nerve Blocks. Chapter 18 Peripheral Nerve Blocks 1. Albrecht E, Reynvoet M, Fournier N, Desmet M. Dose-response relationship of perineural dexamethasone for inter- scalene brachial plexus block: A ran- domised, controlled, triple-blind trial. Anaesthesia. 2019;74(8):1001–1008. PMID: 30973188. 2. Mulroy MF, Weller RS, Liguori GA. A checklist for performing regional nerve blocks. Reg Anesth Pain Med. 2014;39:195–199. 3. Henshaw DS, Turner JD, Dobson SW, etal. Preprocedural checklist for regional anesthesia: Impact on the incidence of wrong site nerve blockade (an 8-year perspective). Reg Anesth Pain Med. 2019 Jan 13. 4. Alakkad H, Naeeni A, Chan VW, etal. Infection related to ultrasound-guided single-injection peripheral nerve block- ade: A decade of experience at Toronto Western hospital. Reg Anesth Pain Med. 2015;40:82–84. 5. Barrington MJ, Kluger R. Ultr

=== 340: Upper extremity terminal nerve blocks ===
  [Morgan & Mikhail p1620]
  These blocks rely on depositing a large volume of local anesthetic into fascial planes in which target nerves are contained. Fascial plane blocks have advantages and disadvantages compared with their respective conventional nerve block alternatives. Often, multiple nerves or dermatomes can be anesthetized by a single injection to a fascial plane that would require multiple injections to cover individual nerves or dermatomes using conventional nerve blocks. Fascial plane blocks are also generally more superficial than conventional nerve or epidural blocks. Both of these factors contribute to the potentially increased safety of fascial plane blocks. However, since fascial plane blocks usually require a large volume, the concentration of local anesthetic is generally decreased, reducing the likelihood that the block will provide surgical anesthesia. Further, since fascial plane blocks do no

  [Stanford CA-1 p97]
  Section: Subspecialty Anesthesia:. Subspecialty Anesthesia: Basic Sciences – Primary modality for majority of peripheral nerve localization May be combined with other techniques PRN – High frequency sounds waves 1-20MHz – Hypoechoic: structures which sound waves pass through easily (appear dark) – Hyperechoic: structures which reflect sound waves (appear white) – Higher frequency transducer= high-res picture, poor tissue penetration (better for superficial nerves) Nerve Stimulation – Insulated needle concentrates electrical current at tip – Poor evidence to support, but classically: <0.2mA current with muscle contraction = intraneural needle location <0.5mA current with muscle contraction = proximity to motor nerve Field Block – Targets terminal cutaneous nerves Ex: intercostobrachial nerve block, superficial cervical plexus block, ankle block Brachial Plexus Anatomy Brachial Plexus: Uni

  [Morgan & Mikhail p2343]
  Section: Ulnar nerve. Ulnar nerve course, 1029f stimulation, 127, 128f Ulnar nerve block, 1028, 1030f Ultrafiltration, 447–448 deep cervical plexus block guided using, 1054–1055, 1055f intercostal block guided using, 1057f interscalene block guided using, 1019f paravertebral block guided using, 1059, 1060f superficial cervical plexus block guided using, 1054, 1054f Umbilical vein cannulation, 898 Unanticipated hospital admission, after ambulatory surgery, 957 Unfractionated heparin, 811, 978, 980f Unidirectional valves, 42–43, 43f Universal precautions, 739 Unstable angina, 397 Upper extremity axillary block, 1024–1025 brachial plexus anatomy, 1015 distal surgery of, 820 infraclavicular block, 1021–1024 interscalene block, 1015–1019 intravenous regional anesthesia, 1033 peripheral nerve blocks, 1015–1033 shoulder surgery, 819–820 supraclavicular block, 1019–1021 terminal nerve blocks, 10

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1613]
  Section: BLOCK TECHNIQUES. immediately available. Patients should be monitored with pulse oximetry, noninvasive blood pressure, and electrocardiography; measurement of end-tidal carbon dioxide (CO2) and the fraction of inspired oxygen (Fio2) should also be available. Positioning should be ergonomically favorable for the practitioner and comfortable for the patient. Intravenous premedication may be employed to allay anxiety and minimize discomfort. A relatively short-acting benzodiazepine and opioid are most often used and should be titrated for comfort while ensuring that patients can respond to verbal cues. Sterile technique should be strictly observed. BLOCK TECHNIQUES Field Block Technique A field block is a local anesthetic injection that targets terminal cutaneous nerves (Figure 46–1). Field blocks are used commonly by surgeons to minimize incisional pain and may be used as a supple

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1314]
  Section: Preoperative insertion of an indwelling perineural catheter with the subsequent. brachial plexus block with or without a perineural catheter is ideally suited for shoulder procedures. More distal blocks such as the superior trunk or supraclavicular block and the “shoulder block” (eg, suprascapular and axillary nerve blocks) represent alternatives. Even when general anesthesia is employed, a peripheral nerve or brachial plexus block can supplement anesthesia by providing muscle relaxation and effective intraoperative and postoperative analgesia. Preoperative insertion of an indwelling perineural catheter with the subsequent infusion of a dilute local anesthetic infusion solution allows postoperative analgesia for 48 to 72 h with most fixed-reservoir disposable pumps following arthroscopic or open shoulder operations (see Chapter 46). Alternatively, the surgeon may insert a subacr

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1785]
  Section: 3. Sympathetic Nerve Blocks. 3. Sympathetic Nerve Blocks Sympathetic blockade can be accomplished by a variety of techniques, including intrathecal, epidural, and paravertebral blocks. Unfortunately, these approaches usually block both somatic and sympathetic fibers. Problems with differential spinal and epidural techniques are discussed later in this section. The following techniques specifically block sympathetic fibers and can be used to define the role of the sympathetic system in a patient’s pain and possibly also provide long-term pain relief. The most common indications for sympathetic nerve blocks include reflex sympathetic dystrophy, visceral pain, acute herpetic neuralgia, postherpetic pain, and peripheral vascular disease. Isolated sympathetic blockade to a region is characterized by loss of sympathetic tone, as evidenced by increased cutaneous blood flow and cutaneou

  [Morgan & Mikhail p2020]
  Section: REGIONAL ANESTHESIA. obstetrical anesthesia-related claims. Early neurological consultation to identify the source of nerve injury is suggested to discern if the injury could be secondary to obstetrical rather than anesthesia interventions. A 2019 closed claims review identifies high neuraxial block, embolic events, and failed intubation as the causes of maternal death or brain injury most likely to result in a claim being paid. REGIONAL ANESTHESIA In a closed claims analysis, peripheral nerve blocks were involved in 159 of the 6894 claims analyzed. Peripheral nerve block claims were for death (8%), permanent injuries (36%), and temporary injuries (56%). The brachial plexus was the most common location for nerve injury. In addition to ocular injury, cardiac arrest following retrobulbar block contributed to anesthesiology claims. Cardiac arrest and epidural hematomas are two of t

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1609]
  Section: Intravenous regional anesthesia, also called a Bier block, can provide intense. from the brachial plexus proximal to where local anesthetic is deposited for an axillary brachial plexus block and thus are usually spared from blockade. The musculocutaneous nerve can be independently blocked to anesthetize the lateral forearm. Often it is necessary to anesthetize a single terminal nerve, either for minor surgical procedures with a limited field or as a supplement to an incomplete brachial plexus block. Terminal nerves may be anesthetized anywhere along their course. Intravenous regional anesthesia, also called a Bier block, can provide intense surgical anesthesia for relatively short (45–60 min) surgical procedures on an extremity. A femoral nerve block alone will seldom provide adequate surgical anesthesia, but it is often used to provide postoperative analgesia for hip, thigh, kn

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1313]
  Section: Single or continuous peripheral nerve blocks, alone or in combination, can provide. arthroplasty with muscle-sparing approaches have been described. With proper patient selection, these techniques may reduce quadriceps muscle damage, facilitating earlier achievement of range-of-motion and ambulation goals, and may allow for short-stay admission or even same-day discharge in select situations. Anesthetic management and postoperative analgesia should facilitate an accelerated, enhanced recovery program. Single or continuous peripheral nerve blocks, alone or in combination, can provide target-specific pain control and facilitate early rehabilitation. Continuous peripheral nerve block catheters with subsequent perineural local anesthetic infusions have been shown to decrease time to meet discharge criteria for TKA. The management of perineural catheters takes a hands-on team approac

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1313]
  Surgery on the Upper Extremity Procedures on the upper extremities include those for disorders of the shoulder (eg, subacromial impingement or rotator cuff tears), traumatic fractures, nerve entrapment syndromes (eg, carpal tunnel syndrome), and autoimmune or

=== 341: Uteroplacental physiology and drug transfer ===
  [Morgan & Mikhail p1368]
  Section: Most commonly used anesthetic adjuncts also readily cross the placenta. Thus,. fetal acidosis increases fetal-to-maternal drug ratios because the binding of hydrogen ions to the nonionized form causes trapping of the local anesthetic in the fetal circulation. Highly protein-bound agents diffuse slowly across the placenta; thus, greater protein binding of bupivacaine and ropivacaine, compared with that of lidocaine, likely accounts for their lower fetal blood levels. Chloroprocaine has the least placental transfer because it is rapidly hydrolyzed by plasma cholinesterase in the maternal circulation. Most commonly used anesthetic adjuncts also readily cross the placenta. Thus, maternally administered ephedrine, β-adrenergic blockers (such as labetalol and esmolol), vasodilators, phenothiazines, antihistamines (H1 and H2), and metoclopramide are transferred to the fetus. Atropine a

  [Miller/Baby Miller p606]
  Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS these spaces facilitates the spread of local anesthetics. However, CSF pressure itself does not increase with Renal Changes Renal blood flow and the glomerular filtration rate are increased about 50% to 60% by the third month of preg- nancy and do not return to pre-pregnant levels until 3 months postpartum. Therefore, the normal upper limits of blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine concentrations in pregnant women are only 50% of those in nonpreg- nant women. There is decreased tubular resorption of both protein and glucose, and excretion of these in the urine is common. A 24-hour urine collection of less than 300 mg protein or 10 grams glucose is considered the upper limit of normal in pregnancy. Hepatic Changes Liver blood flow does not change significantly with pregnancy. Plasma prot

  [Morgan & Mikhail p2024]
  Section: Prevention. Drug syringes and ampules in the workspace should be restricted to those needed for the current patient to minimize errors in drug administration. Drugs should be consistently diluted to the same concentration in the same way for each use, and they should be clearly labeled. Computer systems for scanning bar-coded drug labels may help to reduce medication errors. The conduct of all anesthetics should follow a predictable pattern by which the anesthetist actively surveys the monitors, the surgical field, and the patient on a recurrent basis. In particular, patient positioning should be frequently reassessed to avoid the possibility of nerve compression or stretch injuries. Increasingly, protocols or algorithms, or both, are provided in anesthetizing locations to ensure compliance with preprocedural checklists, standardize responses to adverse events, and minimize erro

  [Morgan & Mikhail p2343]
  Section: Ulnar nerve. Ulnar nerve course, 1029f stimulation, 127, 128f Ulnar nerve block, 1028, 1030f Ultrafiltration, 447–448 deep cervical plexus block guided using, 1054–1055, 1055f intercostal block guided using, 1057f interscalene block guided using, 1019f paravertebral block guided using, 1059, 1060f superficial cervical plexus block guided using, 1054, 1054f Umbilical vein cannulation, 898 Unanticipated hospital admission, after ambulatory surgery, 957 Unfractionated heparin, 811, 978, 980f Unidirectional valves, 42–43, 43f Universal precautions, 739 Unstable angina, 397 Upper extremity axillary block, 1024–1025 brachial plexus anatomy, 1015 distal surgery of, 820 infraclavicular block, 1021–1024 interscalene block, 1015–1019 intravenous regional anesthesia, 1033 peripheral nerve blocks, 1015–1033 shoulder surgery, 819–820 supraclavicular block, 1019–1021 terminal nerve blocks, 10

  [Miller/Baby Miller p62]
  Section: Section II PHARMACOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Section II PHARMACOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY compartments to the central compartment greatly slows the rate of decrease in plasma drug concentration. Curves that continuously decrease over time, with a continuously increasing slope (i.e., like the curve in Fig.4.12), can be described by a sum of negative expo- nentials. In pharmacokinetics, one way of denoting this sum of exponentials is to say that the plasma concentra- tion over time is as follows: C t  where t is the time since the bolus injection; C(t) is the drug concentration after a bolus dose; and A, α, B, β, C, and γ are parameters of a pharmacokinetic model. A, B, and C are coefficients, whereas α, β, and γ are expo- nents. After a bolus injection, all six of the parameters in Eq. 4.6 will be greater than 0. Polyexponential equa- tions are used mainly because they describe the plas

  [Miller/Baby Miller p618]
  Section: Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS. Section IV SPECIAL ANESTHETIC CONSIDERATIONS of 2.5 mg/kg, but larger doses (9 mg/kg) are associated with newborn depression. Etomidate also has a rapid onset of action because of its high lipid solubility. Its rapid hydrolysis results in a relatively short duration of action. At typical induction doses (0.3 mg/kg), etomidate has minimal effects on the maternal cardiovascular system, making it an appropriate choice for patients with hemodynamic compromise. How- ever, etomidate is painful on injection, can cause invol- untary muscle tremors, has higher rates of nausea and vomiting (compared with propofol, which has antiemetic properties), and can increase the risk of seizures in patients with decreased thresholds. It also decreases neo- natal cortisol production (typically <6 hours in duration), with uncertain clinical significance. K

  [Miller/Baby Miller p813]
  Section: Chapter 43 Anesthesia for Trauma. Chapter 43 Anesthesia for Trauma Fig. 43.11 Locations for escharotomy incisions. Box 43.15 Warning Signs of Child Abuse •Injury pattern inconsistent with developmental milestones (e.g., a 2-month-old rolling off the diaper changing table) •Multiple injuries (especially if these appear to have been inflicted over time) •Frequent presentations •Inconsistent history of incident Box 43.16 Blood Volume Estimations •Preterm neonate—95 mL/kg •Full-term neonate—85 mL/kg •Infant—80 mL/kg •Adult (male)—75 mL/kg •Adult (female)—65 mL/kg Box 43.13 Criteria for Transfer of Patients to a Tertiary Burn Center (American Burn Association) •>10% total BSA partial-thickness burns •Full-thickness burns in any age group •Burns involving sensitive areas (hands, feet, perineum, face, genitals, major joints) •Inhalation injuries •Electrical/lightning burn

  [Stanford CA-1 p25]
  Section: IV Anesthetic Agents. IV Anesthetic Agents CNS Targets of IV anesthetics GABA receptors (most common target) – GABA is primary inhibitory neurotransmitter in CNS – Activation causes increase in chloride conductance, and therefore hyperpolarization (promotion of inhibition) – Propofol and Barbiturates decrease the rate of dissociation of GABA and its receptor – Benzodiazepines increase the efficiency of GABA-receptor and chloride ion channel coupling NMDA receptors • NMDA receptors are glutamate and glycine activated ion channels • Ketamine is an uncompetitive antagonist Alpha-2 receptors Dexmedetomidine is an a-2 agonist: inhibits NE release which results in 1. CNS inhibition via the locus creuleus in brain stem and 2. analgesia via decreased substance P release at the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Induction Characteristics and Dosage Requirements for the Currently Available S

  [Miller/Baby Miller p942]
  Section: Transposition of the great arteries. Transposition of the great arteries (TGA), 633 Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), in OSA, 864 Transtracheal block, 274 Transtracheal jet ventilation, 276 Transverse short-axis, 330 Transversus abdominis plane, 333f block, 729 Trauma, 768 adjuncts and investigations, 774b, bay, 770 airway and oxygenation, 771 altered physiology, 771 anesthetic drug choices, 771 circulation and hemorrhage, 773 disability, 774b, 774 exposure, 774 failed endotracheal intubation drills, 773 fasting, 771 hemodynamic status, 771 laryngoscope, 772 management of, 771b, 771 manual in-line stabilization, 772, 772f–773f posttracheal intubation care, 773b, preoxygenation, 771 primary survey, 770, 771b special groups, 773 decision making in, 775 denitive care and transport, 774 initial management, 770 intraoperative management, 776 in non-OR settings, 791 physiology in

  [Stanford CA-1 p100]
  Section: Maternal Physiology of. Maternal Physiology of • Respiratory – Decreased FRC, Increase O2 consumption leads to poor oxygen reserve and rapid desaturation • Sharp decrease in ERV • FRC returns to baseline by 48h postpartum – Increased minute ventilation (50%) • Increased Tidal Volume and Increased RR – Decreased PaCO2 due to hyperventilation • Respiratory alkalosis compensation with LOWER bicarb – Elevated diaphragm but larger AP diameter of chest – NO CHANGE in vital capacity and closing capacity – Increased upper airway edema OB Maternal Physiology of • Cardiovascular – Increase cardiac output (40%), Increase SV (30%) • Peak CO during active labor and immediately after delivery • 2 weeks for CO to return to baseline – Increase HR (20%) – Decrease SBP (5%), Decrease SVR and DBP (15%) – Cardiomyopathy and myocardial hypertrophy – Normal to have Left Axis Deviation and T wave chan

=== 342: Uterotonic pharmacology ===
  [Miller/Baby Miller p114]
  Section: Section II PHARMACOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Section II PHARMACOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY oxide, it is higher relative to MAC immobility (0.55 and 0.64 MAC, respectively).19 Similarly, MAC-amnesia is the concentration to prevent recall in 50% of a popula- tion. This value is not as well defined, but it is likely less than MAC-awake, and it is assumed that conscious recall is abolished at anesthetic concentrations prevent- ing a meaningful response (again, when measured in the absence of noxious stimuli). Another endpoint is MAC- BAR, or blunted autonomic response, at which 50% of a population will not mount an adrenergic response, evidenced by tachycardia, hypertension, and other signs, in response to a surgical stimulus. The MAC-BAR is approximately 1.5 to 1.6 times MAC.19 MAC is a measurement of a response to an anesthetic across a population. However, individual patients can have differ

  [Morgan & Mikhail p1490]
  Section: The principal pharmacodynamic change associated with aging is a reduced. prevent convenient generalizations. The principal pharmacodynamic change associated with aging is a reduced anesthetic requirement, represented by a reduced minimum alveolar concentration (MAC). Older adult patients display a lower dose requirement for propofol, etomidate, opioids, benzodiazepines, and barbiturates. The older adult patient typically presents for surgery with several chronic medical conditions, in addition to any acute surgical illness. Age is not a contraindication to anesthesia and surgery; however, perioperative morbidity and mortality are greater in older adults than younger surgical patients. As with pediatric patients, optimal anesthetic management of older adult patients depends upon an understanding of the normal changes in physiology, anatomy, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics 

  [Morgan & Mikhail p466]
  Section: FLUMAZENIL. Naltrexone is also a pure opioid antagonist with a high affinity for the μ receptor, but it has a significantly longer half-life than naloxone. Naltrexone is used orally for maintenance treatment of addiction. Chapter 48 reviews the use of the peripherally acting opioid receptor antagonists alvimopan and methylnaltrexone in the management and prevention of postoperative ileus as an element of enhanced perioperative recovery. Mechanism of Action Flumazenil, an imidazobenzodiazepine, is a specific and competitive antagonist of benzodiazepines at benzodiazepine receptors. Clinical Uses Flumazenil is useful in the reversal of benzodiazepine sedation and the treatment of benzodiazepine overdose. Although it promptly (onset <1 min) reverses the hypnotic effects of benzodiazepines, amnesia has proved to be less reliably prevented. Some evidence of respiratory depression may

  [Morgan & Mikhail p284]
  Section: As previously mentioned, the combination of opioids and benzodiazepines markedly. prolongation and intensification of its effects. As previously mentioned, the combination of opioids and benzodiazepines markedly reduces arterial blood pressure and peripheral vascular resistance. This synergistic interaction has often been observed in patients undergoing cardiac surgery who received benzodiazepines before or during induction with larger doses of opioids. Benzodiazepines reduce the minimum alveolar concentration of volatile anesthetics by as much as 30%. Ethanol, barbiturates, and other central nervous system depressants potentiate the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Mechanisms of Action Ketamine has multiple effects throughout the central nervous system, and it is well recognized to inhibit N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) channels. Investigators have studied ketamine actions on 

  [Morgan & Mikhail p2275]
  Section: Ibutilide, 380t, 1301t. Ibutilide, 380t, 1301t Ileal conduit, 710 Imidazobenzodiazepine. See Flumazenil Imipenem, 907t Imipramine, 1101t Immunoglobulin E (IgE), 540, 1271f Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies, 640 Immunomodulating nutrients, 1250 Immunomodulation, 152 Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs), 412–413, 413, 953–954 Inamrinone, 472t, 473, 907t Incisura, 353 Indirect Coombs test, 1222 Indomethacin, 1099t Induction agents. See also specific agents barbiturates, 594 benzodiazepines, 595 cerebral physiology affected by, 594–595 etomidate, 595 history of, 4 ketamine, 595, 596f opioids, 595 propofol, 595 Induction team, 28 Induction technique, 606 Infectious croup, 928–929 Infectious motor neuronopathies, 646–647 Inferior alveolar nerve block, 1111f Informed consent, 304 Infraclavicular block, 1021–1024, 1022f–1023f Infusion pumps, 1014f Inhalation anesthesia. See sp

  [Morgan & Mikhail p284]
  Benzodiazepines reduce the minimum alveolar concentration of volatile anesthetics by as much as 30%

  [Morgan & Mikhail p352]
  Section: Antiparkinsonian drugs and tricyclic antidepressants have anticholinergic side effects. liver blood flow, such as cimetidine, will limit hepatic drug metabolism. Antiparkinsonian drugs and tricyclic antidepressants have anticholinergic side effects that augment the sedation produced by scopolamine. Long-acting sedatives, such as benzodiazepines, can delay awakening. Does anesthetic technique alter awakening? Preoperative medications can affect awakening. In particular, opioids and benzodiazepines can interfere with postoperative recovery. Intraoperative hyperventilation is a common cause of postoperative apnea. Because volatile agents and opioids raise the apneic threshold, the PaCO2 level at which spontaneous ventilation ceases, moderate postoperative hypoventilation may be required to stimulate the respiratory centers. Severe intraoperative hypotension or hypertension may lead

  [Morgan & Mikhail p737]
  Section: TCI device widely available in countries outside North America. During cardiac. doses of 5–7 mcg/kg) or remifentanil (0–1 mcg/kg bolus followed by 0.25–1 mcg/kg/min). Target-controlled infusion (TCI) employs software and hardware (computerized infusion pump) to deliver a drug and achieve a set concentration at the effect site based on pharmacokinetic modeling. For propofol, the clinician sets only the patient’s age and weight, and the desired blood concentration on the DiprifusorTM, a TCI device widely available in countries outside North America. During cardiac surgery, a target propofol concentration of 1.5 to 2 mcg/mL is often used. When remifentanil (rather than a longer persisting agent) is used during anesthesia, one must anticipate the need for postoperative analgesia after its discontinuation. C. Mixed Intravenous/Inhalation Anesthesia Selection of anesthetic agents is o

  [Morgan & Mikhail p2098]
  Section: Care of the Patient. Care of the Patient EMERGENCE FROM GENERAL ANESTHESIA Emergence from general anesthesia is ideally characterized by smooth and gradual awakening in a controlled environment. However, problems such as airway obstruction, shivering, agitation, delirium, pain, nausea and vomiting, hypothermia, and autonomic lability are frequently encountered. Patients receiving spinal or epidural anesthesia may experience decreases in blood pressure during transport or recovery; the sympatholytic effects of major conduction blocks may prevent compensatory reflex vasoconstriction when patients are moved or when they sit up. Following an inhalational anesthetic, the speed of emergence is directly proportional to alveolar ventilation but inversely proportional to the agent’s blood solubility (see Chapter 8). Hypoventilation delays emergence from inhalational anesthesia. As the du

  [Morgan & Mikhail p344]
  Section: Although dosage requirements do not significantly vary with age, atracurium may be. 20 min. An infusion of 5 to 10 mcg/kg/min can effectively replace intermittent boluses. Although dosage requirements do not significantly vary with age, atracurium may be shorter acting in children and infants than in adults. Atracurium is available as a solution of 10 mg/mL. It must be stored at 2°C to 8°C because it loses 5% to 10% of its potency for each month it is exposed to room temperature. At room temperature, it should be used within 14 days to preserve potency. Side Effects & Clinical Considerations Atracurium triggers a dose-dependent histamine release that becomes significant at doses above 0.5 mg/kg. A. Hypotension and Tachycardia Cardiovascular side effects are unusual unless doses in excess of 0.5 mg/kg are administered. Atracurium may also cause a transient drop in systemic vascul

